'\" et
.TH AIO_ERROR "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
aio_error
\(em retrieve errors status for an asynchronous I/O operation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <aio.h>
.P
int aio_error(const struct aiocb *\fIaiocbp\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIaio_error\fR()
function shall return the error status associated with the
.BR aiocb
structure referenced by the
.IR aiocbp
argument. The error status for an asynchronous I/O operation is the
.IR errno
value that would be set by the corresponding
\fIread\fR(),
\fIwrite\fR(),
\fIfdatasync\fR(),
or
\fIfsync\fR()
operation. If the operation has not yet completed, then the error
status shall be equal to
.BR [EINPROGRESS] .
.P
If the
.BR aiocb
structure pointed to by
.IR aiocbp
is not associated with an operation that has been scheduled, the
results are undefined.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the asynchronous I/O operation has completed successfully, then 0
shall be returned. If the asynchronous operation has completed
unsuccessfully, then the error status, as described for
\fIread\fR(),
\fIwrite\fR(),
\fIfdatasync\fR(),
and
\fIfsync\fR(),
shall be returned. If the asynchronous I/O operation has not yet
completed, then
.BR [EINPROGRESS] 
shall be returned.
.P
If the
\fIaio_error\fR()
function fails, it shall return \(mi1 and set
.IR errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIaio_error\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The
.IR aiocbp
argument does not refer to an asynchronous operation whose return
status has not yet been retrieved.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.IR "\fIaio_cancel\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIaio_fsync\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIaio_read\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIaio_return\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIaio_write\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIclose\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIexec\fR\^",
.IR "\fIexit\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfork\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIlio_listio\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIlseek\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIread\fR\^(\|)"
.ad b
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<aio.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
