'\" et
.TH ASSERT "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
assert
\(em insert program diagnostics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <assert.h>
.P
void assert(scalar \fIexpression\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
The
\fIassert\fR()
macro shall insert diagnostics into programs; it shall expand to a
.BR void
expression. When it is executed, if
.IR expression
(which shall have a
.BR scalar
type) is false (that is, compares equal to 0),
\fIassert\fR()
shall write information about the particular call that failed on
.IR stderr
and shall call
\fIabort\fR().
.P
The information written about the call that failed shall include the
text of the argument, the name of the source file, the source file line
number, and the name of the enclosing function; the latter are,
respectively, the values of the preprocessing macros _\|_FILE_\|_ and
_\|_LINE_\|_
and of the identifier _\|_func_\|_.
.P
Forcing a definition of the name NDEBUG,
either from the compiler command line or with the preprocessor control
statement
.BR #define
NDEBUG ahead of the
.BR #include
.IR <assert.h> 
statement, shall stop assertions from being compiled into the program.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
\fIassert\fR()
macro shall not return a value.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIabort\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstdin\fR\^"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<assert.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
