'\" et
.TH ATOI "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
atoi
\(em convert a string to an integer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
.P
int atoi(const char *\fIstr\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
The call
.IR atoi ( str )
shall be equivalent to:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
(int) strtol(str, (char **)NULL, 10)
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
except that the handling of errors may differ. If the value cannot be
represented, the behavior is undefined.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
\fIatoi\fR()
function shall return the converted value if the value can be
represented.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Converting an Argument"
.P
The following example checks for proper usage of the program. If there
is an argument and the decimal conversion of this argument (obtained
using
\fIatoi\fR())
is greater than 0, then the program has a valid number of minutes to
wait for an event.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <stdio.h>
\&...
int minutes_to_event;
\&...
if (argc < 2 || ((minutes_to_event = atoi (argv[1]))) <= 0) {
   fprintf(stderr, "Usage: %s minutes\en", argv[0]); exit(1);
}
\&...
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
\fIatoi\fR()
function is subsumed by
\fIstrtol\fR()
but is retained because it is used extensively in existing code. If the
number is not known to be in range,
\fIstrtol\fR()
should be used because
\fIatoi\fR()
is not required to perform any error checking.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIstrtol\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<stdlib.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
