'\" et
.TH CATGETS "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
catgets
\(em read a program message
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <nl_types.h>
.P
char *catgets(nl_catd \fIcatd\fP, int \fIset_id\fP, int \fImsg_id\fP, const char *\fIs\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIcatgets\fR()
function shall attempt to read message
.IR msg_id ,
in set
.IR set_id ,
from the message catalog identified by
.IR catd .
The
.IR catd
argument is a message catalog descriptor returned from an earlier call
to
\fIcatopen\fR().
The results are undefined if
.IR catd
is not a value returned by
\fIcatopen\fR()
for a message catalog still open in the process. The
.IR s
argument points to a default message string which shall be returned by
\fIcatgets\fR()
if it cannot retrieve the identified message.
.P
The
\fIcatgets\fR()
function need not be thread-safe.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the identified message is retrieved successfully,
\fIcatgets\fR()
shall return a pointer to an internal buffer area containing the
null-terminated message string. If the call is unsuccessful for any
reason,
.IR s
shall be returned and
.IR errno
shall be set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIcatgets\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EINTR
The read operation was terminated due to the receipt of a signal, and
no data was transferred.
.TP
.BR ENOMSG
The message identified by
.IR set_id
and
.IR msg_id
is not in the message catalog.
.P
The
\fIcatgets\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EBADF
The
.IR catd
argument is not a valid message catalog descriptor open for reading.
.TP
.BR EBADMSG
The message identified by
.IR set_id
and
.IR msg_id
in the specified message catalog did not satisfy implementation-defined
security criteria.
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The message catalog identified by
.IR catd
is corrupted.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIcatclose\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIcatopen\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<nl_types.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
