'\" et
.TH CFSETOSPEED "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
cfsetospeed
\(em set output baud rate
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <termios.h>
.P
int cfsetospeed(struct termios *\fItermios_p\fP, speed_t \fIspeed\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIcfsetospeed\fR()
function shall set the output baud rate stored in the structure pointed
to by
.IR termios_p
to
.IR speed .
.P
There shall be no effect on the baud rates set in the hardware until a
subsequent successful call to
\fItcsetattr\fR()
with the same
.BR termios
structure. Similarly, errors resulting from attempts to set baud rates
not supported by the terminal device need not be detected until the
\fItcsetattr\fR()
function is called.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
\fIcfsetospeed\fR()
shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return \(mi1 and
.IR errno
may be set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIcfsetospeed\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The
.IR speed
value is not a valid baud rate.
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The value of
.IR speed
is outside the range of possible speed values as specified in
.IR <termios.h> .
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
Refer to
.IR "\fIcfgetispeed\fR\^(\|)".
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIcfgetispeed\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIcfgetospeed\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIcfsetispeed\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fItcsetattr\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 11" ", " "General Terminal Interface",
.IR "\fB<termios.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
