'\" et
.TH CHDIR "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
chdir
\(em change working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>
.P
int chdir(const char *\fIpath\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIchdir\fR()
function shall cause the directory named by the pathname pointed to
by the
.IR path
argument to become the current working directory; that is, the starting
point for path searches for pathnames not beginning with
.BR '/' .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise, \(mi1 shall
be returned, the current working directory shall remain unchanged, and
.IR errno
shall be set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIchdir\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EACCES
Search permission is denied for any component of the pathname.
.TP
.BR ELOOP
A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the
.IR path
argument.
.TP
.BR ENAMETOOLONG
.br
The length of a component of a pathname is longer than
{NAME_MAX}.
.TP
.BR ENOENT
A component of
.IR path
does not name an existing directory or
.IR path
is an empty string.
.TP
.BR ENOTDIR
A component of the pathname names an existing file that is neither
a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.
.P
The
\fIchdir\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR ELOOP
More than
{SYMLOOP_MAX}
symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the
.IR path
argument.
.TP
.BR ENAMETOOLONG
.br
The length of a pathname exceeds
{PATH_MAX},
or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate
result with a length that exceeds
{PATH_MAX}.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Changing the Current Working Directory"
.P
The following example makes the value pointed to by
.BR directory ,
.BR /tmp ,
the current working directory.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
#include <unistd.h>
\&...
char *directory = "/tmp";
int ret;
.P
ret = chdir (directory);
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
The
\fIchdir\fR()
function only affects the working directory of the current process.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIgetcwd\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<unistd.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
