'\" et
.TH CLOCK_GETCPUCLOCKID "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
clock_getcpuclockid
\(em access a process CPU-time clock
(\fBADVANCED REALTIME\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <time.h>
.P
int clock_getcpuclockid(pid_t \fIpid\fP, clockid_t *\fIclock_id\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIclock_getcpuclockid\fR()
function shall return the clock ID of the CPU-time clock of the process
specified by
.IR pid .
If the process described by
.IR pid
exists and the calling process has permission, the clock ID of this
clock shall be returned in
.IR clock_id .
.P
If
.IR pid
is zero, the
\fIclock_getcpuclockid\fR()
function shall return the clock ID of the CPU-time clock of the process
making the call, in
.IR clock_id .
.P
The conditions under which one process has permission to obtain the
CPU-time clock ID of other processes are implementation-defined.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
\fIclock_getcpuclockid\fR()
shall return zero; otherwise, an error number shall be returned to
indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIclock_getcpuclockid\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EPERM
The requesting process does not have permission to access the CPU-time
clock for the process.
.P
The
\fIclock_getcpuclockid\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR ESRCH
No process can be found corresponding to the process specified by
.IR pid .
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
\fIclock_getcpuclockid\fR()
function is part of the Process CPU-Time Clocks option and need not be
provided on all implementations.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIclock_getres\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fItimer_create\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<time.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
