'\" et
.TH EXIT "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
exit
\(em terminate a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
.P
void exit(int \fIstatus\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
The value of
.IR status
may be 0, EXIT_SUCCESS, EXIT_FAILURE,
or any other value, though only the least significant 8 bits (that is,
.IR status
& 0377) shall be available to a waiting parent process.
.P
The
\fIexit\fR()
function shall first call all functions registered by
\fIatexit\fR(),
in the reverse order of their registration, except that a function is
called after any previously registered functions that had already been
called at the time it was registered. Each function is called as many
times as it was registered. If, during the call to any such function, a
call to the
\fIlongjmp\fR()
function is made that would terminate the call to the registered
function, the behavior is undefined.
.P
If a function registered by a call to
\fIatexit\fR()
fails to return, the remaining registered functions shall not be called
and the rest of the
\fIexit\fR()
processing shall not be completed. If
\fIexit\fR()
is called more than once, the behavior is undefined.
.P
The
\fIexit\fR()
function shall then flush all open streams with unwritten buffered data
and close all open streams. Finally, the process shall be terminated
with the same consequences as described in
.IR "Consequences of Process Termination".
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
\fIexit\fR()
function does not return.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
See
\fI_Exit\fR().
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fI_Exit\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIatexit\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIexec\fR\^",
.IR "\fIlongjmp\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fItmpfile\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<stdlib.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
