'\" et
.TH FCHDIR "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
fchdir
\(em change working directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>
.P
int fchdir(int \fIfildes\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIfchdir\fR()
function shall be equivalent to
\fIchdir\fR()
except that the directory that is to be the new current working
directory is specified by the file descriptor
.IR fildes .
.P
A conforming application can obtain a file descriptor for a file of
type directory using
\fIopen\fR(),
provided that the file status flags and access modes do not contain
O_WRONLY or O_RDWR.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
\fIfchdir\fR()
shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return \(mi1 and set
.IR errno
to indicate the error. On failure the current working directory
shall remain unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIfchdir\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EACCES
Search permission is denied for the directory referenced by
.IR fildes .
.TP
.BR EBADF
The
.IR fildes
argument is not an open file descriptor.
.TP
.BR ENOTDIR
The open file descriptor
.IR fildes
does not refer to a directory.
.P
The
\fIfchdir\fR()
may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINTR
A signal was caught during the execution of
\fIfchdir\fR().
.TP
.BR EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file system.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIchdir\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIdirfd\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<unistd.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
