'\" et
.TH FERAISEEXCEPT "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
feraiseexcept
\(em raise floating-point exception
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <fenv.h>
.P
int feraiseexcept(int \fIexcepts\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
The
\fIferaiseexcept\fR()
function shall attempt to raise the supported floating-point exceptions
represented by the argument
.IR excepts .
The order in which these floating-point exceptions are raised is
unspecified. Whether the
\fIferaiseexcept\fR()
function additionally raises the inexact floating-point exception
whenever it raises the overflow or underflow floating-point exception
is implementation-defined.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the argument is zero or if all the specified exceptions were
successfully raised,
\fIferaiseexcept\fR()
shall return zero. Otherwise, it shall return a non-zero value.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The effect is intended to be similar to that of floating-point
exceptions raised by arithmetic operations. Hence, enabled traps for
floating-point exceptions raised by this function are taken.
.SH RATIONALE
Raising overflow or underflow is allowed to also raise inexact because
on some architectures the only practical way to raise an exception is
to execute an instruction that has the exception as a side-effect. The
function is not restricted to accept only valid coincident expressions
for atomic operations, so the function can be used to raise exceptions
accrued over several operations.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIfeclearexcept\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfegetexceptflag\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfetestexcept\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<fenv.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
