'\" et
.TH FEUPDATEENV "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
feupdateenv
\(em update floating-point environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <fenv.h>
.P
int feupdateenv(const fenv_t *\fIenvp\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
The
\fIfeupdateenv\fR()
function shall attempt to save the currently raised floating-point
exceptions in its automatic storage, attempt to install the
floating-point environment represented by the object pointed to by
.IR envp ,
and then attempt to raise the saved floating-point exceptions. The
argument
.IR envp
shall point to an object set by a call to
\fIfeholdexcept\fR()
or
\fIfegetenv\fR(),
or equal a floating-point environment macro.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
\fIfeupdateenv\fR()
function shall return a zero value if and only if all the required
actions were successfully carried out.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example shows sample code to hide spurious underflow
floating-point exceptions:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
#include <fenv.h>
double f(double x)
{
    #pragma STDC FENV_ACCESS ON
    double result;
    fenv_t save_env;
    feholdexcept(&save_env);
    // compute result
    if (/* test spurious underflow */)
    feclearexcept(FE_UNDERFLOW);
    feupdateenv(&save_env);
    return result;
}
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIfegetenv\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfeholdexcept\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<fenv.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
