'\" et
.TH FOPEN "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
fopen
\(em open a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
.P
FILE *fopen(const char *restrict \fIpathname\fP, const char *restrict \fImode\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
The
\fIfopen\fR()
function shall open the file whose pathname is the string pointed to by
.IR pathname ,
and associates a stream with it.
.P
The
.IR mode
argument points to a string. If the string is one of the following, the
file shall be opened in the indicated mode. Otherwise, the behavior is
undefined.
.IP "\fIr\fP\ or\ \fIrb\fP" 14
Open file for reading.
.IP "\fIw\fP\ or\ \fIwb\fP" 14
Truncate to zero length or create file for writing.
.IP "\fIa\fP\ or\ \fIab\fP" 14
Append; open or create file for writing at end-of-file.
.IP "\fIr+\fP\ or\ \fIrb+\fP\ or\ \fIr+b\fP" 14
Open file for update (reading and writing).
.IP "\fIw+\fP\ or\ \fIwb+\fP\ or\ \fIw+b\fP" 14
Truncate to zero length or create file for update.
.IP "\fIa+\fP\ or\ \fIab+\fP\ or\ \fIa+b\fP" 14
Append; open or create file for update, writing at end-of-file.
.P
The character
.BR 'b' 
shall have no effect, but is allowed for ISO\ C standard conformance.
Opening a file with read mode (\fIr\fP as the first character in the
.IR mode
argument) shall fail if the file does not exist or cannot be read.
.P
Opening a file with append mode (\fIa\fP as the first character in the
.IR mode
argument) shall cause all subsequent writes to the file to be forced to
the then current end-of-file, regardless of intervening calls to
\fIfseek\fR().
.P
When a file is opened with update mode (\c
.BR '+' 
as the second or third character in the
.IR mode
argument), both input and output may be performed on the associated
stream. However, the application shall ensure that output is not
directly followed by input without an intervening call to
\fIfflush\fR()
or to a file positioning function (\c
\fIfseek\fR(),
\fIfsetpos\fR(),
or
\fIrewind\fR()),
and input is not directly followed by output without an intervening
call to a file positioning function, unless the input operation
encounters end-of-file.
.P
When opened, a stream is fully buffered if and only if it can be
determined not to refer to an interactive device. The error and
end-of-file indicators for the stream shall be cleared.
.P
If
.IR mode
is \fIw\fR, \fIwb\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIw\fR+, \fIwb\fR+,
\fIw\fR+\fIb\fR, \fIa\fP+, \fIab\fR+, or \fIa\fR+\fIb\fR, and the file
did not previously exist, upon successful completion,
\fIfopen\fR()
shall mark for update the last data access, last data modification, and
last file status change timestamps of the file and the last file status
change and last data modification timestamps of the parent directory.
.P
If
.IR mode
is \fIw\fR, \fIwb\fR, \fIa\fR, \fIab\fR, \fIw\fR+, \fIwb\fR+,
\fIw\fR+\fIb\fR, \fIa\fP+, \fIab\fR+, or \fIa\fR+\fIb\fR, and the file
did not previously exist, the
\fIfopen\fR()
function shall create a file as if it called the
\fIcreat\fR()
function with a value appropriate for the
.IR path
argument interpreted from
.IR pathname
and a value of S_IRUSR | S_IWUSR | S_IRGRP | S_IWGRP | S_IROTH |
S_IWOTH for the
.IR mode
argument.
.P
If
.IR mode
is \fIw\fR, \fIwb\fR, \fIw\fR+, \fIwb\fR+, or \fIw\fR+\fIb\fR, and the
file did previously exist, upon successful completion,
\fIfopen\fR()
shall mark for update the last data modification and last file
status change timestamps of the file.
.P
After a successful call to the
\fIfopen\fR()
function, the orientation of the stream shall be cleared,
the encoding rule shall be cleared,
and the associated
.BR mbstate_t
object shall be set to describe an initial conversion state.
.P
The file descriptor associated with the opened stream shall be allocated
and opened as if by a call to
\fIopen\fR()
with the following flags:
.TS
center box tab(!);
cB | cB
l | l.
\fIfopen\fP(\^) Mode!\fIopen\fP(\^) Flags
_
\fIr\fR or \fIrb\fR!O_RDONLY
\fIw\fR or \fIwb\fR!O_WRONLY|O_CREAT|O_TRUNC
\fIa\fR or \fIab\fR!O_WRONLY|O_CREAT|O_APPEND
\fIr+\fR or \fIrb+\fR or \fIr+b\fR!O_RDWR
\fIw+\fR or \fIwb+\fR or \fIw+b\fR!O_RDWR|O_CREAT|O_TRUNC
\fIa+\fR or \fIab+\fR or \fIa+b\fR!O_RDWR|O_CREAT|O_APPEND
.TE
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
\fIfopen\fR()
shall return a pointer to the object controlling the stream. Otherwise,
a null pointer shall be returned,
and
.IR errno
shall be set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIfopen\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix, or the
file exists and the permissions specified by
.IR mode
are denied, or the file does not exist and write permission is denied
for the parent directory of the file to be created.
.TP
.BR EINTR
A signal was caught during
\fIfopen\fR().
.TP
.BR EISDIR
The named file is a directory and
.IR mode
requires write access.
.TP
.BR ELOOP
A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the
.IR path
argument.
.TP
.BR EMFILE
All file descriptors available to the process are currently open.
.TP
.BR EMFILE
{STREAM_MAX}
streams are currently open in the calling process.
.TP
.BR ENAMETOOLONG
.br
The length of a pathname exceeds
{PATH_MAX},
or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate
result with a length that exceeds
{PATH_MAX}.
.TP
.BR ENFILE
The maximum allowable number of files is currently open in the system.
.TP
.BR ENOENT
The
.IR mode
string begins with
.BR 'r' 
and a component of
.IR pathname
does not name an existing file, or
.IR mode
begins with
.BR 'w' 
or
.BR 'a' 
and a component of the path prefix of
.IR pathname
does not name an existing file, or
.IR pathname
is an empty string.
.TP
.BR ENOENT " or " ENOTDIR
.br
The
.IR pathname
argument contains at least one non-\c
<slash>
character and ends with one or more trailing
<slash>
characters. If
.IR pathname
names an existing file, an
.BR [ENOENT] 
error shall not occur.
.TP
.BR ENOSPC
The directory or file system that would contain the new file cannot be
expanded, the file does not exist, and the file was to be created.
.TP
.BR ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix names an existing file that is neither
a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory, or the
.IR pathname
argument contains at least one non-\c
<slash>
character and ends with one or more trailing
<slash>
characters and the last pathname component names an existing file that
is neither a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.
.TP
.BR ENXIO
The named file is a character special or block special file,
and the device associated with this special file does not exist.
.TP
.BR EOVERFLOW
The named file is a regular file and the size of the file cannot be
represented correctly in an object of type
.BR off_t .
.TP
.BR EROFS
The named file resides on a read-only file system and
.IR mode
requires write access.
.P
The
\fIfopen\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The value of the
.IR mode
argument is not valid.
.TP
.BR ELOOP
More than
{SYMLOOP_MAX}
symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the
.IR path
argument.
.TP
.BR EMFILE
{FOPEN_MAX}
streams are currently open in the calling process.
.TP
.BR ENAMETOOLONG
.br
The length of a component of a pathname is longer than
{NAME_MAX}.
.TP
.BR ENOMEM
Insufficient storage space is available.
.TP
.BR ETXTBSY
The file is a pure procedure (shared text) file that is being executed
and
.IR mode
requires write access.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Opening a File"
.P
The following example tries to open the file named
.BR file
for reading. The
\fIfopen\fR()
function returns a file pointer that is used in subsequent
\fIfgets\fR()
and
\fIfclose\fR()
calls. If the program cannot open the file, it just ignores it.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
#include <stdio.h>
\&...
FILE *fp;
\&...
void rgrep(const char *file)
{
\&...
    if ((fp = fopen(file, "r")) == NULL)
        return;
\&...
}
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "Section 2.5" ", " "Standard I/O Streams",
.IR "\fIcreat\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfclose\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfdopen\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfmemopen\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfreopen\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIopen_memstream\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<stdio.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
