'\" et
.TH FREELOCALE "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
freelocale
\(em free resources allocated for a locale object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <locale.h>
.P
void freelocale(locale_t \fIlocobj\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIfreelocale\fR()
function shall cause the resources allocated for a locale object
returned by a call to the
\fInewlocale\fR()
or
\fIduplocale\fR()
functions to be released.
.P
The behavior is undefined if the
.IR locobj
argument is the special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE or is not a valid
locale object handle.
.P
Any use of a locale object that has been freed results in undefined
behavior.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
None.
.SH ERRORS
None.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Freeing Up a Locale Object"
.P
The following example shows a code fragment to free a locale object
created by
\fInewlocale\fR():
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
#include <locale.h>
\&...
.P
/* Every locale object allocated with newlocale() should be
 * freed using freelocale():
 */
.P
locale_t loc;
.P
/* Get the locale. */
.P
loc = newlocale (LC_CTYPE_MASK | LC_TIME_MASK, "locname", NULL);
.P
/* ... Use the locale object ... */
\&...
.P
/* Free the locale object resources. */
freelocale (loc);
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIduplocale\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fInewlocale\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIuselocale\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<locale.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
