'\" et
.TH FSTATVFS "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
fstatvfs,
statvfs
\(em get file system information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/statvfs.h>
.P
int fstatvfs(int \fIfildes\fP, struct statvfs *\fIbuf\fP);
int statvfs(const char *restrict \fIpath\fP, struct statvfs *restrict \fIbuf\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIfstatvfs\fR()
function shall obtain information about the file system containing
the file referenced by
.IR fildes .
.P
The
\fIstatvfs\fR()
function shall obtain information about the file system
containing the file named by
.IR path .
.P
For both functions, the
.IR buf
argument is a pointer to a
.BR statvfs
structure that shall be filled. Read, write, or execute permission of
the named file is not required.
.P
The following flags can be returned in the
.IR f_flag
member:
.IP ST_RDONLY 12
Read-only file system.
.IP ST_NOSUID 12
Setuid/setgid bits ignored by
.IR exec .
.P
It is unspecified whether all members of the
.BR statvfs
structure have meaningful values on all file systems.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
\fIstatvfs\fR()
shall return 0. Otherwise, it shall return \(mi1 and set
.IR errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIfstatvfs\fR()
and
\fIstatvfs\fR()
functions shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading the file system.
.TP
.BR EINTR
A signal was caught during execution of the function.
.TP
.BR EOVERFLOW
One of the values to be returned cannot be represented correctly in
the structure pointed to by
.IR buf .
.P
The
\fIfstatvfs\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EBADF
The
.IR fildes
argument is not an open file descriptor.
.P
The
\fIstatvfs\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the path prefix.
.TP
.BR ELOOP
A loop exists in symbolic links encountered during resolution of the
.IR path
argument.
.TP
.BR ENAMETOOLONG
.br
The length of a component of a pathname is longer than
{NAME_MAX}.
.TP
.BR ENOENT
A component of
.IR path
does not name an existing file or
.IR path
is an empty string.
.TP
.BR ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix names an existing file that is neither
a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory, or the
.IR path
argument contains at least one non-\c
<slash>
character and ends with one or more trailing
<slash>
characters and the last pathname component names an existing file
that is neither a directory nor a symbolic link to a directory.
.br
.P
The
\fIstatvfs\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR ELOOP
More than
{SYMLOOP_MAX}
symbolic links were encountered during resolution of the
.IR path
argument.
.TP
.BR ENAMETOOLONG
.br
The length of a pathname exceeds
{PATH_MAX},
or pathname resolution of a symbolic link produced an intermediate
result with a length that exceeds
{PATH_MAX}.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Obtaining File System Information Using fstatvfs(\|)"
.P
The following example shows how to obtain file system information for
the file system upon which the file named
.BR /home/cnd/mod1
resides, using the
\fIfstatvfs\fR()
function. The
.BR /home/cnd/mod1
file is opened with read/write privileges and the open file descriptor
is passed to the
\fIfstatvfs\fR()
function.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
#include <sys/statvfs.h>
#include <fcntl.h>
.P
struct statvfs buffer;
int            status;
\&...
fildes = open("/home/cnd/mod1", O_RDWR);
status  = fstatvfs(fildes, &buffer);
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SS "Obtaining File System Information Using statvfs(\|)"
.P
The following example shows how to obtain file system information for
the file system upon which the file named
.BR /home/cnd/mod1
resides, using the
\fIstatvfs\fR()
function.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
#include <sys/statvfs.h>
.P
struct statvfs buffer;
int            status;
\&...
status = statvfs("/home/cnd/mod1", &buffer);
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIchmod\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIchown\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIcreat\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIdup\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIexec\fR\^",
.IR "\fIfcntl\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIlink\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImknod\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIopen\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpipe\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIread\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fItime\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIunlink\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIutime\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwrite\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<sys_statvfs.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
