'\" et
.TH GETRUSAGE "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
getrusage
\(em get information about resource utilization
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sys/resource.h>
.P
int getrusage(int \fIwho\fP, struct rusage *\fIr_usage\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIgetrusage\fR()
function shall provide measures of the resources used by the current
process or its terminated and waited-for child processes. If the value
of the
.IR who
argument is RUSAGE_SELF, information shall be returned about resources
used by the current process. If the value of the
.IR who
argument is RUSAGE_CHILDREN,
information shall be returned about resources used by the terminated and
waited-for children of the current process. If the child is never
waited for (for example, if the parent has SA_NOCLDWAIT set or sets
SIGCHLD to SIG_IGN), the resource
information for the child process is discarded and not included in the
resource information provided by
\fIgetrusage\fR().
.P
The
.IR r_usage
argument is a pointer to an object of type
.BR "struct rusage"
in which the returned information is stored.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
\fIgetrusage\fR()
shall return 0; otherwise, \(mi1 shall be returned and
.IR errno
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIgetrusage\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The value of the
.IR who
argument is not valid.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Using getrusage(\|)"
.P
The following example returns information about the resources used by
the current process.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
#include <sys/resource.h>
\&...
int who = RUSAGE_SELF;
struct rusage usage;
int ret;
.P
ret = getrusage(who, &usage);
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIexit\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsigaction\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fItime\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fItimes\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwait\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<sys_resource.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
