'\" et
.TH GRANTPT "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
grantpt
\(em grant access to the slave pseudo-terminal device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
.P
int grantpt(int \fIfildes\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIgrantpt\fR()
function shall change the mode and ownership of the slave pseudo-terminal
device associated with its master pseudo-terminal counterpart. The
.IR fildes
argument is a file descriptor that refers to a master
pseudo-terminal device. The user ID of the slave shall be set to the real
UID of the calling process and the group ID shall be set to an unspecified
group ID. The permission mode of the slave pseudo-terminal shall be set to
readable and writable by the owner, and writable by the group.
.P
The behavior of the
\fIgrantpt\fR()
function is unspecified if the application has installed a signal
handler to catch SIGCHLD signals.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
\fIgrantpt\fR()
shall return 0; otherwise, it shall return \(mi1 and set
.IR errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIgrantpt\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EBADF
The
.IR fildes
argument is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The
.IR fildes
argument is not associated with a master pseudo-terminal device.
.TP
.BR EACCES
The corresponding slave pseudo-terminal device could not be accessed.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
See the RATIONALE section for
.IR "\fIposix_openpt\fR\^(\|)".
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIopen\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIposix_openpt\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIptsname\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIunlockpt\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<stdlib.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
