'\" et
.TH LOCALECONV "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
localeconv
\(em return locale-specific information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <locale.h>
.P
struct lconv *localeconv(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
The
\fIlocaleconv\fR()
function shall set the components of an object with the type
.BR "struct lconv"
with the values appropriate for the formatting of numeric quantities
(monetary and otherwise) according to the rules of the current locale.
.P
The members of the structure with type
.BR "char *"
are pointers to strings, any of which (except
.BR decimal_point )
can point to
.BR \(dq\^\(dq ,
to indicate that the value is not available in the current locale or is
of zero length. The members with type
.BR char
are non-negative numbers, any of which can be
{CHAR_MAX}
to indicate that the value is not available in the current locale.
.P
The members include the following:
.IP "\fBchar\ *decimal_point\fP" 6
.br
The radix character used to format non-monetary quantities.
.IP "\fBchar\ *thousands_sep\fP" 6
.br
The character used to separate groups of digits before the
decimal-point character in formatted non-monetary quantities.
.IP "\fBchar\ *grouping\fP" 6
.br
A string whose elements taken as one-byte integer values indicate the
size of each group of digits in formatted non-monetary quantities.
.IP "\fBchar\ *int_curr_symbol\fP" 6
.br
The international currency symbol applicable to the current locale.
The first three characters contain the alphabetic international
currency symbol in accordance with those specified in the ISO\ 4217:\|2001 standard. The
fourth character (immediately preceding the null byte) is the character
used to separate the international currency symbol from the monetary
quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ *currency_symbol\fP" 6
.br
The local currency symbol applicable to the current locale.
.IP "\fBchar\ *mon_decimal_point\fP" 6
.br
The radix character used to format monetary quantities.
.IP "\fBchar\ *mon_thousands_sep\fP" 6
.br
The separator for groups of digits before the decimal-point in
formatted monetary quantities.
.IP "\fBchar\ *mon_grouping\fP" 6
.br
A string whose elements taken as one-byte integer values indicate the
size of each group of digits in formatted monetary quantities.
.IP "\fBchar\ *positive_sign\fP" 6
.br
The string used to indicate a non-negative valued formatted monetary
quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ *negative_sign\fP" 6
.br
The string used to indicate a negative valued formatted monetary
quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ int_frac_digits\fP" 6
.br
The number of fractional digits (those after the decimal-point) to be
displayed in an internationally formatted monetary quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ frac_digits\fP" 6
.br
The number of fractional digits (those after the decimal-point) to be
displayed in a formatted monetary quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ p_cs_precedes\fP" 6
.br
Set to 1 if the
.BR currency_symbol
precedes the value for a non-negative formatted monetary quantity. Set
to 0 if the symbol succeeds the value.
.IP "\fBchar\ p_sep_by_space\fP" 6
.br
Set to a value indicating the separation of the
.BR currency_symbol ,
the sign string, and the value for a non-negative formatted monetary
quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ n_cs_precedes\fP" 6
.br
Set to 1 if the
.BR currency_symbol
precedes the value for a negative formatted monetary quantity. Set
to 0 if the symbol succeeds the value.
.IP "\fBchar\ n_sep_by_space\fP" 6
.br
Set to a value indicating the separation of the
.BR currency_symbol ,
the sign string, and the value for a negative formatted monetary
quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ p_sign_posn\fP" 6
.br
Set to a value indicating the positioning of the
.BR positive_sign
for a non-negative formatted monetary quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ n_sign_posn\fP" 6
.br
Set to a value indicating the positioning of the
.BR negative_sign
for a negative formatted monetary quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ int_p_cs_precedes\fP" 6
.br
Set to 1 or 0 if the
.BR int_curr_symbol
respectively precedes or succeeds the value for a non-negative
internationally formatted monetary quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ int_n_cs_precedes\fP" 6
.br
Set to 1 or 0 if the
.BR int_curr_symbol
respectively precedes or succeeds the value for a negative
internationally formatted monetary quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ int_p_sep_by_space\fP" 6
.br
Set to a value indicating the separation of the
.BR int_curr_symbol ,
the sign string, and the value for a non-negative internationally
formatted monetary quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ int_n_sep_by_space\fP" 6
.br
Set to a value indicating the separation of the
.BR int_curr_symbol ,
the sign string, and the value for a negative internationally formatted
monetary quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ int_p_sign_posn\fP" 6
.br
Set to a value indicating the positioning of the
.BR positive_sign
for a non-negative internationally formatted monetary quantity.
.IP "\fBchar\ int_n_sign_posn\fP" 6
.br
Set to a value indicating the positioning of the
.BR negative_sign
for a negative internationally formatted monetary quantity.
.P
The elements of
.BR grouping
and
.BR mon_grouping
are interpreted according to the following:
.IP {CHAR_MAX} 12
No further grouping is to be performed.
.IP 0 12
The previous element is to be repeatedly used for the remainder of the
digits.
.IP "\fIother\fP" 12
The integer value is the number of digits that comprise the current
group. The next element is examined to determine the size of the next
group of digits before the current group.
.P
The values of
.BR p_sep_by_space ,
.BR n_sep_by_space ,
.BR int_p_sep_by_space ,
and
.BR int_n_sep_by_space
are interpreted according to the following:
.IP 0 6
No space separates the currency symbol and value.
.IP 1 6
If the currency symbol and sign string are adjacent, a space separates
them from the value; otherwise, a space separates the currency symbol
from the value.
.IP 2 6
If the currency symbol and sign string are adjacent, a space separates
them; otherwise, a space separates the sign string from the value.
.P
For
.BR int_p_sep_by_space
and
.BR int_n_sep_by_space ,
the fourth character of
.BR int_curr_symbol
is used instead of a space.
.P
The values of
.BR p_sign_posn ,
.BR n_sign_posn ,
.BR int_p_sign_posn ,
and
.BR int_n_sign_posn
are interpreted according to the following:
.IP 0 6
Parentheses surround the quantity and
.BR currency_symbol
or
.BR int_curr_symbol .
.IP 1 6
The sign string precedes the quantity and
.BR currency_symbol
or
.BR int_curr_symbol .
.IP 2 6
The sign string succeeds the quantity and
.BR currency_symbol
or
.BR int_curr_symbol .
.IP 3 6
The sign string immediately precedes the
.BR currency_symbol
or
.BR int_curr_symbol .
.IP 4 6
The sign string immediately succeeds the
.BR currency_symbol
or
.BR int_curr_symbol .
.P
The implementation shall behave as if no function in this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 calls
\fIlocaleconv\fR().
.P
The
\fIlocaleconv\fR()
function need not be thread-safe.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
\fIlocaleconv\fR()
function shall return a pointer to the filled-in object. The application
shall not modify the structure to which the return value points,
nor any storage areas pointed to by pointers within the structure. The
returned pointer, and pointers within the structure, might be
invalidated or
the structure
or the storage areas
might be overwritten by a subsequent call to
\fIlocaleconv\fR().
In addition,
the returned pointer, and pointers within the structure, might be
invalidated or
the structure
or the storage areas
might be overwritten by subsequent calls to
\fIsetlocale\fR()
with the categories LC_ALL, LC_MONETARY, or LC_NUMERIC,
or by calls to
\fIuselocale\fR()
which change the categories LC_MONETARY or LC_NUMERIC.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The following table illustrates the rules which may be used by four
countries to format monetary quantities.
.TS
center box tab(!);
cB | cB | cB | cB
l | l | l | l.
Country!Positive Format!Negative Format!International Format
_
Italy!\(eu.1.230!\(mi\(eu.1.230!EUR.1.230
Netherlands!\(eu 1.234,56!\(eu \(mi1.234,56!EUR 1.234,56
Norway!kr1.234,56!kr1.234,56\(mi!NOK 1.234,56
Switzerland!SFrs.1,234.56!SFrs.1,234.56C!CHF 1,234.56
.TE
.P
For these four countries, the respective values for the monetary
members of the structure returned by
\fIlocaleconv\fR()
are:
.TS
center box tab(!);
cB | cB | cB | cB | cB
lb | cf5 | cf5 | cf5 | cf5.
!Italy!Netherlands!Norway!Switzerland
_
int_curr_symbol!"EUR."!"EUR "!"NOK "!"CHF "
currency_symbol!"\(eu."!"\(eu"!"kr"!"SFrs."
mon_decimal_point!""!","!","!"."
mon_thousands_sep!"."!"."!"."!","
mon_grouping!"\e3"!"\e3"!"\e3"!"\e3"
positive_sign!""!""!""!""
negative_sign!"-"!"-"!"-"!"C"
int_frac_digits!0!2!2!2
frac_digits!0!2!2!2
p_cs_precedes!1!1!1!1
p_sep_by_space!0!1!0!0
n_cs_precedes!1!1!1!1
n_sep_by_space!0!1!0!0
p_sign_posn!1!1!1!1
n_sign_posn!1!4!2!2
int_p_cs_precedes!1!1!1!1
int_n_cs_precedes!1!1!1!1
int_p_sep_by_space!0!0!0!0
int_n_sep_by_space!0!0!0!0
int_p_sign_posn!1!1!1!1
int_n_sign_posn!1!4!4!2
.TE
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIfprintf\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfscanf\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIisalpha\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIisascii\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fInl_langinfo\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsetlocale\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrcat\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrchr\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrcmp\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrcoll\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrcpy\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrftime\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrlen\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrpbrk\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrspn\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrtok\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrxfrm\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrtod\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIuselocale\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<langinfo.h>\fP",
.IR "\fB<locale.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
