'\" et
.TH LRINT "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
lrint,
lrintf,
lrintl
\(em round to nearest integer value using current rounding direction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <math.h>
.P
long lrint(double \fIx\fP);
long lrintf(float \fIx\fP);
long lrintl(long double \fIx\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
These functions shall round their argument to the nearest integer
value, rounding according to the current rounding direction.
.P
An application wishing to check for error situations should set
.IR errno
to zero and call
.IR feclearexcept (FE_ALL_EXCEPT)
before calling these functions. On return, if
.IR errno
is non-zero or \fIfetestexcept\fR(FE_INVALID | FE_DIVBYZERO |
FE_OVERFLOW | FE_UNDERFLOW) is non-zero, an error has occurred.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, these functions shall return the rounded
integer value.
.P
If
.IR x
is NaN, a domain error shall occur and an unspecified value is
returned.
.P
If
.IR x
is +Inf, a domain error shall occur and an unspecified value is
returned.
.P
If
.IR x
is \(miInf, a domain error shall occur and an unspecified value is
returned.
.P
If the correct value is positive and too large to represent as a
.BR long ,
an unspecified value shall be returned.
On systems that support the IEC 60559 Floating-Point option, a domain
error shall occur;
otherwise, a
domain
error may occur.
.P
If the correct value is negative and too large to represent as a
.BR long ,
an unspecified value shall be returned.
On systems that support the IEC 60559 Floating-Point option, a domain
error shall occur;
otherwise, a
domain
error may occur.
.SH ERRORS
These functions shall fail if:
.IP "Domain\ Error" 12
The
.IR x
argument is NaN or \(+-Inf, or the correct value is not representable
as an integer.
.RS 12 
.P
If the integer expression (\fImath_errhandling\fR & MATH_ERRNO) is
non-zero, then
.IR errno
shall be set to
.BR [EDOM] .
If the integer expression (\fImath_errhandling\fR & MATH_ERREXCEPT) is
non-zero, then the invalid floating-point exception shall be raised.
.RE
.P
These functions may fail if:
.IP "Domain\ Error" 12
The correct value is not representable as an integer.
.RS 12 
.P
If the integer expression (\fImath_errhandling\fR & MATH_ERRNO) is
non-zero, then
.IR errno
shall be set to
.BR [EDOM] .
If the integer expression (\fImath_errhandling\fR & MATH_ERREXCEPT) is
non-zero, then the invalid floating-point exception shall be raised.
.RE
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
On error, the expressions (\fImath_errhandling\fR & MATH_ERRNO) and
(\fImath_errhandling\fR & MATH_ERREXCEPT) are independent of each
other, but at least one of them must be non-zero.
.SH RATIONALE
These functions provide floating-to-integer conversions. They round
according to the current rounding direction. If the rounded value is
outside the range of the return type, the numeric result is unspecified
and the invalid floating-point exception is raised. When they raise no
other floating-point exception and the result differs from the
argument, they raise the inexact floating-point exception.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIfeclearexcept\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfetestexcept\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIllrint\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 4.19" ", " "Treatment of Error Conditions for Mathematical Functions",
.IR "\fB<math.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
