'\" et
.TH MBSINIT "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
mbsinit
\(em determine conversion object status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>
.P
int mbsinit(const mbstate_t *\fIps\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
If
.IR ps
is not a null pointer, the
\fImbsinit\fR()
function shall determine whether the object pointed to by
.IR ps
describes an initial conversion state.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
\fImbsinit\fR()
function shall return non-zero if
.IR ps
is a null pointer, or if the pointed-to object describes an initial
conversion state; otherwise, it shall return zero.
.P
If an
.BR mbstate_t
object is altered by any of the functions described as ``restartable'',
and is then used with a different character sequence, or in the other
conversion direction, or with a different
.IR LC_CTYPE
category setting than on earlier function calls, the behavior is undefined.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
.BR mbstate_t
object is used to describe the current conversion state from a
particular character sequence to a wide-character sequence (or \fIvice
versa\fP) under the rules of a particular setting of the
.IR LC_CTYPE
category of the current locale.
.P
The initial conversion state corresponds, for a conversion in either
direction, to the beginning of a new character sequence in the initial
shift state. A zero valued
.BR mbstate_t
object is at least one way to describe an initial conversion state. A
zero valued
.BR mbstate_t
object can be used to initiate conversion involving any character
sequence, in any
.IR LC_CTYPE
category setting.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fImbrlen\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImbrtowc\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImbsrtowcs\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwcrtomb\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwcsrtombs\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<wchar.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
