'\" et
.TH MQ_CLOSE "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
mq_close
\(em close a message queue
(\fBREALTIME\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <mqueue.h>
.P
int mq_close(mqd_t \fImqdes\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fImq_close\fR()
function shall remove the association between the message queue
descriptor,
.IR mqdes ,
and its message queue. The results of using this message queue
descriptor after successful return from this
\fImq_close\fR(),
and until the return of this message queue descriptor from a subsequent
\fImq_open\fR(),
are undefined.
.P
If the process has successfully attached a notification request to the
message queue via this
.IR mqdes ,
this attachment shall be removed, and the message queue is available
for another process to attach for notification.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
\fImq_close\fR()
function shall return a value of zero; otherwise, the function shall
return a value of \(mi1 and set
.IR errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fImq_close\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EBADF
The
.IR mqdes
argument is not a valid message queue descriptor.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fImq_open\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImq_unlink\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImsgctl\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImsgget\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImsgrcv\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImsgsnd\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<mqueue.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
