'\" et
.TH MQ_GETATTR "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
mq_getattr
\(em get message queue attributes
(\fBREALTIME\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <mqueue.h>
.P
int mq_getattr(mqd_t \fImqdes\fP, struct mq_attr *\fImqstat\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fImq_getattr\fR()
function shall obtain status information and attributes of the message
queue and the open message queue description associated with the
message queue descriptor.
.P
The
.IR mqdes
argument specifies a message queue descriptor.
.P
The results shall be returned in the
.BR mq_attr
structure referenced by the
.IR mqstat
argument.
.P
Upon return, the following members shall have the values associated
with the open message queue description as set when the message queue
was opened and as modified by subsequent
\fImq_setattr\fR()
calls:
.IR mq_flags .
.P
The following attributes of the message queue shall be returned as set
at message queue creation:
.IR mq_maxmsg ,
.IR mq_msgsize .
.P
Upon return, the following members within the
.BR mq_attr
structure referenced by the
.IR mqstat
argument shall be set to the current state of the message queue:
.IP "\fImq_curmsgs\fP" 10
The number of messages currently on the queue.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
\fImq_getattr\fR()
function shall return zero. Otherwise, the function shall return
\(mi1 and set
.IR errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fImq_getattr\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EBADF
The
.IR mqdes
argument is not a valid message queue descriptor.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
See
.IR "\fImq_notify\fR\^(\|)".
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fImq_notify\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImq_open\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImq_send\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImq_setattr\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImsgctl\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImsgget\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImsgrcv\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImsgsnd\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<mqueue.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
