'\" et
.TH POLL "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
poll
\(em input/output multiplexing
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <poll.h>
.P
int poll(struct pollfd \fIfds\fP[], nfds_t \fInfds\fP, int \fItimeout\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIpoll\fR()
function provides applications with a mechanism for multiplexing
input/output over a set of file descriptors. For each member of the
array pointed to by
.IR fds ,
\fIpoll\fR()
shall examine the given file descriptor for the event(s) specified in
.IR events .
The number of
.BR pollfd
structures in the
.IR fds
array is specified by
.IR nfds .
The
\fIpoll\fR()
function shall identify those file descriptors on which an application
can read or write data, or on which certain events have occurred.
.P
The
.IR fds
argument specifies the file descriptors to be examined
and the events of interest for each file descriptor. It is a pointer to
an array with one member for each open file descriptor of interest. The
array's members are
.BR pollfd
structures within which
.IR fd
specifies an open file descriptor and
.IR events
and
.IR revents
are bitmasks constructed by OR'ing a combination of the following event
flags:
.IP POLLIN 12
Data other than high-priority data may be read without blocking.
.RS 12 
.P
For STREAMS, this flag is set in
.IR revents
even if the message is of zero length. This flag shall be equivalent
to POLLRDNORM | POLLRDBAND.
.RE
.IP POLLRDNORM 12
Normal data may be read without blocking.
.RS 12 
.P
For STREAMS, data on priority band 0 may be read without blocking. This
flag is set in
.IR revents
even if the message is of zero length.
.RE
.IP POLLRDBAND 12
Priority data may be read without blocking.
.RS 12 
.P
For STREAMS, data on priority bands greater than 0 may be read without
blocking. This flag is set in
.IR revents
even if the message is of zero length.
.RE
.IP POLLPRI 12
High-priority data may be read without blocking.
.RS 12 
.P
For STREAMS, this flag is set in
.IR revents
even if the message is of zero length.
.RE
.IP POLLOUT 12
Normal data may be written without blocking.
.RS 12 
.P
For STREAMS, data on priority band 0 may be written without blocking.
.RE
.IP POLLWRNORM 12
Equivalent to POLLOUT.
.IP POLLWRBAND 12
Priority data may be written.
.RS 12 
.P
For STREAMS, data on priority bands greater than 0 may be written
without blocking. If any priority band has been written to on this
STREAM, this event only examines bands that have been written
to at least once.
.RE
.IP POLLERR 12
An error has occurred on the device or stream. This flag is only valid
in the
.IR revents
bitmask; it shall be ignored in the
.IR events
member.
.IP POLLHUP 12
A device has been disconnected, or a pipe or FIFO has been closed by the
last process that had it open for writing. Once set, the hangup state of a
FIFO shall persist until some process opens the FIFO for writing or until
all read-only file descriptors for the FIFO are closed. This event and
POLLOUT are mutually-exclusive; a stream can never be writable if a hangup
has occurred. However, this event and POLLIN, POLLRDNORM, POLLRDBAND,
or POLLPRI are not mutually-exclusive. This flag is only valid in the
.IR revents
bitmask; it shall be ignored in the
.IR events
member.
.IP POLLNVAL 12
The specified
.IR fd
value is invalid. This flag is only valid in the
.IR revents
member; it shall ignored in the
.IR events
member.
.P
The significance and semantics of normal, priority, and high-priority
data are file and device-specific.
.P
If the value of
.IR fd
is less than 0,
.IR events
shall be ignored, and
.IR revents
shall be set to 0 in that entry on return from
\fIpoll\fR().
.P
In each
.BR pollfd
structure,
\fIpoll\fR()
shall clear the
.IR revents
member, except that where the application requested a report on a
condition by setting one of the bits of
.IR events
listed above,
\fIpoll\fR()
shall set the corresponding bit in
.IR revents
if the requested condition is true. In addition,
\fIpoll\fR()
shall set the POLLHUP, POLLERR, and POLLNVAL flag in
.IR revents
if the condition is true, even if the application did not set the
corresponding bit in
.IR events .
.P
If none of the defined events have occurred on any selected file
descriptor,
\fIpoll\fR()
shall wait at least
.IR timeout
milliseconds for an event to occur on any of the selected file
descriptors. If the value of
.IR timeout
is 0,
\fIpoll\fR()
shall return immediately. If the value of
.IR timeout
is \(mi1,
\fIpoll\fR()
shall block until a requested event occurs or until the call is
interrupted.
.P
Implementations may place limitations on the granularity of timeout
intervals. If the requested timeout interval requires a finer
granularity than the implementation supports, the actual timeout
interval shall be rounded up to the next supported value.
.P
The
\fIpoll\fR()
function shall not be affected by the O_NONBLOCK flag.
.P
The
\fIpoll\fR()
function shall support regular files, terminal and pseudo-terminal
devices, FIFOs, pipes, sockets and
STREAMS-based files.
The behavior of
\fIpoll\fR()
on elements of
.IR fds
that refer to other types of file is unspecified.
.P
Regular files shall always poll TRUE for reading and writing.
.P
A file descriptor for a socket that is listening for connections shall
indicate that it is ready for reading, once connections are available.
A file descriptor for a socket that is connecting asynchronously shall
indicate that it is ready for writing, once a connection has been
established.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
\fIpoll\fR()
shall return a non-negative value. A positive value indicates the total
number of file descriptors that have been selected (that is, file
descriptors for which the
.IR revents
member is non-zero). A value of 0 indicates that the call timed out and
no file descriptors have been selected. Upon failure,
\fIpoll\fR()
shall return \(mi1 and set
.IR errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIpoll\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EAGAIN
The allocation of internal data structures failed but a subsequent
request may succeed.
.TP
.BR EINTR
A signal was caught during
\fIpoll\fR().
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The
.IR nfds
argument is greater than
{OPEN_MAX},
or one of the
.IR fd
members refers to a STREAM or multiplexer that is linked (directly or
indirectly) downstream from a multiplexer.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Checking for Events on a Stream"
.P
The following example opens a pair of STREAMS devices and then waits
for either one to become writable. This example proceeds as follows:
.IP " 1." 4
Sets the
.IR timeout
parameter to 500 milliseconds.
.IP " 2." 4
Opens the STREAMS devices
.BR /dev/dev0
and
.BR /dev/dev1 ,
and then polls them, specifying POLLOUT and POLLWRBAND as the events of
interest.
.RS 4 
.P
The STREAMS device names
.BR /dev/dev0
and
.BR /dev/dev1
are only examples of how STREAMS devices can be named; STREAMS naming
conventions may vary among systems conforming to the POSIX.1\(hy2008.
.RE
.IP " 3." 4
Uses the
.IR ret
variable to determine whether an event has occurred on either of the
two STREAMS. The
\fIpoll\fR()
function is given 500 milliseconds to wait for an event to occur (if it
has not occurred prior to the
\fIpoll\fR()
call).
.IP " 4." 4
Checks the returned value of
.IR ret .
If a positive value is returned, one of the following can be done:
.RS 4 
.IP " a." 4
Priority data can be written to the open STREAM on priority bands
greater than 0, because the POLLWRBAND event occurred on the open
STREAM (\c
.IR fds [0]
or
.IR fds [1]).
.IP " b." 4
Data can be written to the open STREAM on priority-band 0, because the
POLLOUT event occurred on the open STREAM (\c
.IR fds [0]
or
.IR fds [1]).
.RE
.IP " 5." 4
If the returned value is not a positive value, permission to write data
to the open STREAM (on any priority band) is denied.
.IP " 6." 4
If the POLLHUP event occurs on the open STREAM (\c
.IR fds [0]
or
.IR fds [1]),
the device on the open STREAM has disconnected.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
#include <stropts.h>
#include <poll.h>
\&...
struct pollfd fds[2];
int timeout_msecs = 500;
int ret;
    int i;
.P
/* Open STREAMS device. */
fds[0].fd = open("/dev/dev0", ...);
fds[1].fd = open("/dev/dev1", ...);
fds[0].events = POLLOUT | POLLWRBAND;
fds[1].events = POLLOUT | POLLWRBAND;
.P
ret = poll(fds, 2, timeout_msecs);
.P
if (ret > 0) {
    /* An event on one of the fds has occurred. */
    for (i=0; i<2; i++) {
        if (fds[i].revents & POLLWRBAND) {
        /* Priority data may be written on device number i. */
\&...
        }
        if (fds[i].revents & POLLOUT) {
        /* Data may be written on device number i. */
\&...
        }
        if (fds[i].revents & POLLHUP) {
        /* A hangup has occurred on device number i. */
\&...
        }
    }
}
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
The POLLHUP event does not occur for FIFOs just because the FIFO is not
open for writing. It only occurs when the FIFO is closed by the last
writer and persists until some process opens the FIFO for writing or
until all read-only file descriptors for the FIFO are closed.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "Section 2.6" ", " "STREAMS",
.IR "\fIgetmsg\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpselect\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIputmsg\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIread\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwrite\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<poll.h>\fP",
.IR "\fB<stropts.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
