'\" et
.TH POSIX_SPAWN_FILE_ACTIONS_DESTROY "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
posix_spawn_file_actions_destroy,
posix_spawn_file_actions_init
\(em destroy and initialize spawn file actions object
(\fBADVANCED REALTIME\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <spawn.h>
.P
int posix_spawn_file_actions_destroy(posix_spawn_file_actions_t
    *\fIfile_actions\fP);
int posix_spawn_file_actions_init(posix_spawn_file_actions_t
    *\fIfile_actions\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_destroy\fR()
function shall destroy the object referenced by
.IR file_actions ;
the object becomes, in effect, uninitialized. An implementation may
cause
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_destroy\fR()
to set the object referenced by
.IR file_actions
to an invalid value. A destroyed spawn file actions object can be
reinitialized using
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_init\fR();
the results of otherwise referencing the object after it has been
destroyed are undefined.
.P
The
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_init\fR()
function shall initialize the object referenced by
.IR file_actions
to contain no file actions for
\fIposix_spawn\fR()
or
\fIposix_spawnp\fR()
to perform.
.P
A spawn file actions object is as defined in
.IR "\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_addclose\fR\^(\|)".
.P
The effect of initializing an already initialized spawn file actions
object is undefined.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, these functions shall return zero;
otherwise, an error number shall be returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_init\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR ENOMEM
Insufficient memory exists to initialize the spawn file actions object.
.P
The
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_destroy\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The value specified by
.IR file_actions
is invalid.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
These functions are part of the Spawn option and need not be
provided on all implementations.
.SH RATIONALE
Refer to the RATIONALE section in
.IR "\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_addclose\fR\^(\|)".
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIposix_spawn\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_addclose\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<spawn.h>\fP"
.br
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
