'\" et
.TH POSIX_TRACE_EVENTSET_ADD "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
.ad l
posix_trace_eventset_add,
posix_trace_eventset_del,
posix_trace_eventset_empty,
posix_trace_eventset_fill,
posix_trace_eventset_ismember
\(em manipulate trace event type sets
(\fBTRACING\fP)
.ad b
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <trace.h>
.P
int posix_trace_eventset_add(trace_event_id_t \fIevent_id\fP,
    trace_event_set_t *\fIset\fP);
int posix_trace_eventset_del(trace_event_id_t \fIevent_id\fP,
    trace_event_set_t *\fIset\fP);
int posix_trace_eventset_empty(trace_event_set_t *\fIset\fP);
int posix_trace_eventset_fill(trace_event_set_t *\fIset\fP, int \fIwhat\fP);
int posix_trace_eventset_ismember(trace_event_id_t \fIevent_id\fP,
    const trace_event_set_t *restrict \fIset\fP, int *restrict \fIismember\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These primitives manipulate sets of trace event types. They operate on
data objects addressable by the application, not on the current trace
event filter of any trace stream.
.P
The
\fIposix_trace_eventset_add\fR()
and
\fIposix_trace_eventset_del\fR()
functions, respectively, shall add or delete the individual trace event
type specified by the value of the argument
.IR event_id
to or from the trace event type set pointed to by the argument
.IR set .
Adding a trace event type already in the set or deleting a trace event
type not in the set shall not be considered an error.
.P
The
\fIposix_trace_eventset_empty\fR()
function shall initialize the trace event type set pointed to by the
.IR set
argument such that all trace event types defined, both system and user,
shall be excluded from the set.
.P
The
\fIposix_trace_eventset_fill\fR()
function shall initialize the trace event type set pointed to by the
argument
.IR set ,
such that the set of trace event types defined by the argument
.IR what
shall be included in the set. The value of the argument
.IR what
shall consist of one of the following values, as defined in the
.IR <trace.h> 
header:
.IP POSIX_TRACE_WOPID_EVENTS 6
.br
All the process-independent implementation-defined system trace event
types are included in the set.
.IP POSIX_TRACE_SYSTEM_EVENTS 6
.br
All the implementation-defined system trace event types are included in
the set, as are those defined in POSIX.1\(hy2008.
.IP POSIX_TRACE_ALL_EVENTS 6
.br
All trace event types defined, both system and user, are included in
the set.
.P
Applications shall call either
\fIposix_trace_eventset_empty\fR()
or
\fIposix_trace_eventset_fill\fR()
at least once for each object of type
.BR trace_event_set_t
prior to any other use of that object. If such an object is not
initialized in this way, but is nonetheless supplied as an argument to
any of the
\fIposix_trace_eventset_add\fR(),
\fIposix_trace_eventset_del\fR(),
or
\fIposix_trace_eventset_ismember\fR()
functions, the results are undefined.
.P
The
\fIposix_trace_eventset_ismember\fR()
function shall test whether the trace event type specified by the value
of the argument
.IR event_id
is a member of the set pointed to by the argument
.IR set .
The value returned in the object pointed to by
.IR ismember
argument is zero if the trace event type identifier is not a member of
the set and a value different from zero if it is a member of the set.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, these functions shall return a value of
zero. Otherwise, they shall return the corresponding error number.
.SH ERRORS
These functions may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The value of one of the arguments is invalid.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
The
\fIposix_trace_eventset_add\fR(),
\fIposix_trace_eventset_del\fR(),
\fIposix_trace_eventset_empty\fR(),
\fIposix_trace_eventset_fill\fR(),
and
\fIposix_trace_eventset_ismember\fR()
functions may be removed in a future version.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIposix_trace_eventid_equal\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIposix_trace_get_filter\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<trace.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
