'\" et
.TH POSIX_TRACE_ATTR_DESTROY "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
posix_trace_attr_destroy,
posix_trace_attr_init
\(em destroy and initialize the trace stream attributes object
(\fBTRACING\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <trace.h>
.P
int posix_trace_attr_destroy(trace_attr_t *\fIattr\fP);
int posix_trace_attr_init(trace_attr_t *\fIattr\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIposix_trace_attr_destroy\fR()
function shall destroy an initialized trace attributes object.
A destroyed
.IR attr
attributes object can be reinitialized using
\fIposix_trace_attr_init\fR();
the results of otherwise referencing the object after it
has been destroyed are undefined.
.P
The
\fIposix_trace_attr_init\fR()
function shall initialize a trace attributes object
.IR attr
with the default value for all of the individual attributes used by a
given implementation. The read-only
.IR generation-version
and
.IR clock-resolution
attributes of the newly initialized trace attributes object shall be
set to their appropriate values (see
.IR "Section 2.11.1.2" ", " "posix_trace_status_info Structure").
.P
Results are undefined if
\fIposix_trace_attr_init\fR()
is called specifying an already initialized
.IR attr
attributes object.
.P
Implementations may add extensions to the trace attributes object
structure as permitted in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 2" ", " "Conformance".
.P
The resulting attributes object (possibly modified by setting
individual attributes values), when used by
\fIposix_trace_create\fR(),
defines the attributes of the trace stream created. A single
attributes object can be used in multiple calls to
\fIposix_trace_create\fR().
After one or more trace streams have been created using an attributes
object, any function affecting that attributes object, including
destruction, shall not affect any trace stream previously created. An
initialized attributes object also serves to receive the attributes of
an existing trace stream or trace log when calling the
\fIposix_trace_get_attr\fR()
function.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, these functions shall return a value of
zero. Otherwise, they shall return the corresponding error number.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIposix_trace_attr_destroy\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The value of
.IR attr
is invalid.
.P
The
\fIposix_trace_attr_init\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR ENOMEM
Insufficient memory exists to initialize the trace attributes object.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
The
\fIposix_trace_attr_destroy\fR()
and
\fIposix_trace_attr_init\fR()
functions may be removed in a future version.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIposix_trace_create\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIposix_trace_get_attr\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIuname\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<trace.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
