'\" et
.TH POSIX_TRACE_START "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
posix_trace_start,
posix_trace_stop
\(em trace start and stop
(\fBTRACING\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <trace.h>
.P
int posix_trace_start(trace_id_t \fItrid\fP);
int posix_trace_stop (trace_id_t \fItrid\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIposix_trace_start\fR()
and
\fIposix_trace_stop\fR()
functions, respectively, shall start and stop the trace stream
identified by the argument
.IR trid .
.P
The effect of calling the
\fIposix_trace_start\fR()
function shall be recorded in the trace stream as the POSIX_TRACE_START
system trace event and the status of the trace stream shall become
POSIX_TRACE_RUNNING.
If the trace stream is in progress when this function is called, the
POSIX_TRACE_START
system trace event shall not be recorded and the trace stream shall
continue to run. If the trace stream is full, the POSIX_TRACE_START
system trace event shall not be recorded and the status of the trace
stream shall not be changed.
.P
The effect of calling the
\fIposix_trace_stop\fR()
function shall be recorded in the trace stream as the POSIX_TRACE_STOP
system trace event and the status of the trace stream shall become
POSIX_TRACE_SUSPENDED.
If the trace stream is suspended when this function is called, the
POSIX_TRACE_STOP system trace event shall not be recorded and the trace
stream shall remain suspended. If the trace stream is full, the
POSIX_TRACE_STOP system trace event shall not be recorded and the
status of the trace stream shall not be changed.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, these functions shall return a value of
zero. Otherwise, they shall return the corresponding error number.
.SH ERRORS
These functions shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The value of the argument
.IR trid
does not correspond to an active trace stream and thus no trace stream
was started or stopped.
.TP
.BR EINTR
The operation was interrupted by a signal and thus the trace stream was
not necessarily started or stopped.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
The
\fIposix_trace_start\fR()
and
\fIposix_trace_stop\fR()
functions may be removed in a future version.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIposix_trace_create\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<trace.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
