'\" et
.TH POSIX_SPAWN_FILE_ACTIONS_ADDDUP2 "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
posix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2
\(em add dup2 action to spawn file actions object
(\fBADVANCED REALTIME\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <spawn.h>
.P
int posix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2(posix_spawn_file_actions_t
    *\fIfile_actions\fP, int \fIfildes\fP, int \fInewfildes\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2\fR()
function shall add a
\fIdup2\fR()
action to the object referenced by
.IR file_actions
that shall cause the file descriptor
.IR fildes
to be duplicated as
.IR newfildes
(as if
.IR dup2 (\c
.IR fildes ,
.IR newfildes )
had been called) when a new process is spawned using this file actions
object.
.P
A spawn file actions object is as defined in
.IR "\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_addclose\fR\^(\|)".
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2\fR()
function shall return zero; otherwise, an error number shall be
returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EBADF
The value specified by
.IR fildes
or
.IR newfildes
is negative or greater than or equal to
{OPEN_MAX}.
.TP
.BR ENOMEM
Insufficient memory exists to add to the spawn file actions object.
.P
The
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The value specified by
.IR file_actions
is invalid.
.P
It shall not be considered an error for the
.IR fildes
argument passed to the
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2\fR()
function to specify a file descriptor for which the specified operation
could not be performed at the time of the call. Any such error will be
detected when the associated file actions object is later used during a
\fIposix_spawn\fR()
or
\fIposix_spawnp\fR()
operation.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2\fR()
function is part of the Spawn option and need not be
provided on all implementations.
.P
Implementations may use file descriptors that must be inherited into
child processes for the child process to remain conforming, such as for
message catalog or tracing purposes. Therefore, an application that calls
\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2\fR()
with an arbitrary integer for
.IR newfildes
risks non-conforming behavior, and this function can only portably be
used to overwrite file descriptor values that the application has obtained
through explicit actions, or for the three file descriptors corresponding
to the standard file streams. In order to avoid a race condition of
leaking an unintended file descriptor into a child process, an application
should consider opening all file descriptors with the FD_CLOEXEC bit
set unless the file descriptor is intended to be inherited across
.IR exec .
.SH RATIONALE
Refer to the RATIONALE section in
.IR "\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_addclose\fR\^(\|)".
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIdup\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIposix_spawn\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_addclose\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIposix_spawn_file_actions_destroy\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<spawn.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
