'\" et
.TH PTHREAD_RWLOCKATTR_DESTROY "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
pthread_rwlockattr_destroy,
pthread_rwlockattr_init
\(em destroy and initialize the read-write lock attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <pthread.h>
.P
int pthread_rwlockattr_destroy(pthread_rwlockattr_t *\fIattr\fP);
int pthread_rwlockattr_init(pthread_rwlockattr_t *\fIattr\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIpthread_rwlockattr_destroy\fR()
function shall destroy a read-write lock attributes object. A destroyed
.IR attr
attributes object can be reinitialized using
\fIpthread_rwlockattr_init\fR();
the results of otherwise referencing the object after it
has been destroyed are undefined. An implementation may cause
\fIpthread_rwlockattr_destroy\fR()
to set the object referenced by
.IR attr
to an invalid value.
.P
The
\fIpthread_rwlockattr_init\fR()
function shall initialize a read-write lock attributes object
.IR attr
with the default value for all of the attributes defined by the
implementation.
.P
Results are undefined if
\fIpthread_rwlockattr_init\fR()
is called specifying an already initialized
.IR attr
attributes object.
.P
After a read-write lock attributes object has been used to initialize
one or more read-write locks, any function affecting the attributes
object (including destruction) shall not affect any previously
initialized read-write locks.
.P
The behavior is undefined if the value specified by the
.IR attr
argument to
\fIpthread_rwlockattr_destroy\fR()
does not refer to an initialized read-write lock attributes object.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If successful, the
\fIpthread_rwlockattr_destroy\fR()
and
\fIpthread_rwlockattr_init\fR()
functions shall return zero; otherwise, an error number shall be
returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIpthread_rwlockattr_init\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR ENOMEM
Insufficient memory exists to initialize the read-write lock attributes
object.
.P
These functions shall not return an error code of
.BR [EINTR] .
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
If an implementation detects that the value specified by the
.IR attr
argument to
\fIpthread_rwlockattr_destroy\fR()
does not refer to an initialized read-write lock attributes object,
it is recommended that the function should fail and report an
.BR [EINVAL] 
error.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIpthread_rwlock_destroy\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpthread_rwlockattr_getpshared\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<pthread.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
