'\" et
.TH PTHREAD_ATTR_GETSTACKSIZE "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
.ad l
pthread_attr_getstacksize,
pthread_attr_setstacksize
\(em get and set the stacksize attribute
.ad b
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <pthread.h>
.P
int pthread_attr_getstacksize(const pthread_attr_t *restrict \fIattr\fP,
    size_t *restrict \fIstacksize\fP);
int pthread_attr_setstacksize(pthread_attr_t *\fIattr\fP, size_t \fIstacksize\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIpthread_attr_getstacksize\fR()
and
\fIpthread_attr_setstacksize\fR()
functions, respectively, shall get and set the thread creation
.IR stacksize
attribute in the
.IR attr
object.
.P
The
.IR stacksize
attribute shall define the minimum stack size (in bytes) allocated
for the created threads stack.
.P
The behavior is undefined if the value specified by the
.IR attr
argument to
\fIpthread_attr_getstacksize\fR()
or
\fIpthread_attr_setstacksize\fR()
does not refer to an initialized thread attributes object.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
\fIpthread_attr_getstacksize\fR()
and
\fIpthread_attr_setstacksize\fR()
shall return a value of 0; otherwise, an error number shall be
returned to indicate the error.
.P
The
\fIpthread_attr_getstacksize\fR()
function stores the
.IR stacksize
attribute value in
.IR stacksize
if successful.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIpthread_attr_setstacksize\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The value of
.IR stacksize
is less than
{PTHREAD_STACK_MIN}
or exceeds a system-imposed limit.
.P
These functions shall not return an error code of
.BR [EINTR] .
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
If an implementation detects that the value specified by the
.IR attr
argument to
\fIpthread_attr_getstacksize\fR()
or
\fIpthread_attr_setstacksize\fR()
does not refer to an initialized thread attributes object, it is
recommended that the function should fail and report an
.BR [EINVAL] 
error.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIpthread_attr_destroy\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpthread_attr_getdetachstate\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpthread_create\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<limits.h>\fP",
.IR "\fB<pthread.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
