'\" et
.TH PTHREAD_BARRIERATTR_GETPSHARED "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
pthread_barrierattr_getpshared,
pthread_barrierattr_setpshared
\(em get and set the process-shared attribute of the barrier
attributes object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <pthread.h>
.P
int pthread_barrierattr_getpshared(const pthread_barrierattr_t
    *restrict \fIattr\fP, int *restrict \fIpshared\fP);
int pthread_barrierattr_setpshared(pthread_barrierattr_t *\fIattr\fP,
    int \fIpshared\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIpthread_barrierattr_getpshared\fR()
function shall obtain the value of the
.IR process-shared
attribute from the attributes object referenced by
.IR attr .
The
\fIpthread_barrierattr_setpshared\fR()
function shall set the
.IR process-shared
attribute in an initialized attributes object referenced by
.IR attr .
.P
The
.IR process-shared
attribute is set to PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED to
permit a barrier to be operated upon by any thread that has access to
the memory where the barrier is allocated. If the
.IR process-shared
attribute is PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE, the barrier shall only be
operated upon by
threads created within the same process as the thread that initialized
the barrier; if threads of different processes attempt to operate on
such a barrier, the behavior is undefined. The default value of the
attribute shall be PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE. Both constants
PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED and PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE are defined in
.IR <pthread.h> .
.P
Additional attributes, their default values, and the names of the
associated functions to get and set those attribute values are
implementation-defined.
.P
The behavior is undefined if the value specified by the
.IR attr
argument to
\fIpthread_barrierattr_getpshared\fR()
or
\fIpthread_barrierattr_setpshared\fR()
does not refer to an initialized barrier attributes object.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If successful, the
\fIpthread_barrierattr_getpshared\fR()
function shall return zero and store the value of the
.IR process-shared
attribute of
.IR attr
into the object referenced by the
.IR pshared
parameter. Otherwise, an error number shall be returned to indicate
the error.
.P
If successful, the
\fIpthread_barrierattr_setpshared\fR()
function shall return zero; otherwise, an error number shall be
returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIpthread_barrierattr_setpshared\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The new value specified for the
.IR process-shared
attribute is not one of the legal values PTHREAD_PROCESS_SHARED
or PTHREAD_PROCESS_PRIVATE.
.P
These functions shall not return an error code of
.BR [EINTR] .
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
\fIpthread_barrierattr_getpshared\fR()
and
\fIpthread_barrierattr_setpshared\fR()
functions are part of the Thread Process-Shared Synchronization
option and need not be provided on all implementations.
.SH RATIONALE
If an implementation detects that the value specified by the
.IR attr
argument to
\fIpthread_barrierattr_getpshared\fR()
or
\fIpthread_barrierattr_setpshared\fR()
does not refer to an initialized barrier attributes object, it is
recommended that the function should fail and report an
.BR [EINVAL] 
error.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.IR "\fIpthread_barrier_destroy\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpthread_barrierattr_destroy\fR\^(\|)"
.ad b
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<pthread.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
