'\" et
.TH PTHREAD_MUTEX_CONSISTENT "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
pthread_mutex_consistent \(em
mark state protected by robust mutex as consistent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <pthread.h>
.P
int pthread_mutex_consistent(pthread_mutex_t *\fImutex\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
If
.IR mutex
is a robust mutex in an inconsistent state, the
\fIpthread_mutex_consistent\fR()
function can be used to mark the state protected by the mutex
referenced by
.IR mutex
as consistent again.
.P
If an owner of a robust mutex terminates while holding the mutex, the
mutex becomes inconsistent and the next thread that acquires the mutex
lock shall be notified of the state by the return value
.BR [EOWNERDEAD] .
In this case, the mutex does not become normally usable again until the
state is marked consistent.
.P
If the thread which acquired the mutex lock with the return value
.BR [EOWNERDEAD] 
terminates before calling either
\fIpthread_mutex_consistent\fR()
or
\fIpthread_mutex_unlock\fR(),
the next thread that acquires the mutex lock shall be notified about
the state of the mutex by the return value
.BR [EOWNERDEAD] .
.P
The behavior is undefined if the value specified by the
.IR mutex
argument to
\fIpthread_mutex_consistent\fR()
does not refer to an initialized mutex.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
\fIpthread_mutex_consistent\fR()
function shall return zero. Otherwise, an error value shall be returned
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIpthread_mutex_consistent\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The mutex object referenced by
.IR mutex
is not robust or does not protect an inconsistent state.
.P
These functions shall not return an error code of
.BR [EINTR] .
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
\fIpthread_mutex_consistent\fR()
function is only responsible for notifying the implementation that the
state protected by the mutex has been recovered and that normal
operations with the mutex can be resumed. It is the responsibility of
the application to recover the state so it can be reused. If the
application is not able to perform the recovery, it can notify the
implementation that the situation is unrecoverable by a call to
\fIpthread_mutex_unlock\fR()
without a prior call to
\fIpthread_mutex_consistent\fR(),
in which case subsequent threads that attempt to lock the mutex will
fail to acquire the lock and be returned
.BR [ENOTRECOVERABLE] .
.SH RATIONALE
If an implementation detects that the value specified by the
.IR mutex
argument to
\fIpthread_mutex_consistent\fR()
does not refer to an initialized mutex, it is recommended that the
function should fail and report an
.BR [EINVAL] 
error.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIpthread_mutex_lock\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpthread_mutexattr_getrobust\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<pthread.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
