'\" et
.TH PTHREAD_SETCANCELSTATE "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
pthread_setcancelstate,
pthread_setcanceltype,
pthread_testcancel
\(em set cancelability state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <pthread.h>
.P
int pthread_setcancelstate(int \fIstate\fP, int *\fIoldstate\fP);
int pthread_setcanceltype(int \fItype\fP, int *\fIoldtype\fP);
void pthread_testcancel(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIpthread_setcancelstate\fR()
function shall atomically both set the calling thread's cancelability
state to the indicated
.IR state
and return the previous cancelability state at the location referenced
by
.IR oldstate .
Legal values for
.IR state
are PTHREAD_CANCEL_ENABLE and PTHREAD_CANCEL_DISABLE.
.P
The
\fIpthread_setcanceltype\fR()
function shall atomically both set the calling thread's cancelability
type to the indicated
.IR type
and return the previous cancelability type at the location referenced
by
.IR oldtype .
Legal values for
.IR type
are PTHREAD_CANCEL_DEFERRED and PTHREAD_CANCEL_ASYNCHRONOUS.
.P
The cancelability state and type of any newly created threads,
including the thread in which
\fImain\fR()
was first invoked, shall be PTHREAD_CANCEL_ENABLE and
PTHREAD_CANCEL_DEFERRED respectively.
.P
The
\fIpthread_testcancel\fR()
function shall create a cancellation point in the calling thread. The
\fIpthread_testcancel\fR()
function shall have no effect if cancelability is disabled.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If successful, the
\fIpthread_setcancelstate\fR()
and
\fIpthread_setcanceltype\fR()
functions shall return zero; otherwise, an error number shall be
returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIpthread_setcancelstate\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The specified state is not PTHREAD_CANCEL_ENABLE or
PTHREAD_CANCEL_DISABLE.
.P
The
\fIpthread_setcanceltype\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The specified type is not PTHREAD_CANCEL_DEFERRED or
PTHREAD_CANCEL_ASYNCHRONOUS.
.P
These functions shall not return an error code of
.BR [EINTR] .
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
The
\fIpthread_setcancelstate\fR()
and
\fIpthread_setcanceltype\fR()
functions control the points at which a thread may be
asynchronously canceled. For cancellation control to be usable in
modular fashion, some rules need to be followed.
.P
An object can be considered to be a generalization of a procedure. It
is a set of procedures and global variables written as a unit and
called by clients not known by the object. Objects may depend on other
objects.
.P
First, cancelability should only be disabled on entry to an object,
never explicitly enabled. On exit from an object, the
cancelability state should always be restored to its value on entry to
the object.
.P
This follows from a modularity argument: if the client of an object
(or the client of an object that uses that object) has disabled
cancelability, it is because the client does not want to be concerned
about cleaning up if the thread is canceled while executing some
sequence of actions. If an object is called in such a state and it
enables cancelability and a cancellation request is pending for that
thread, then the thread is canceled, contrary to the wish of the client
that disabled.
.P
Second, the
cancelability type may be explicitly set to either
.IR deferred
or
.IR asynchronous
upon entry to an object. But as with the cancelability state, on exit
from an object the cancelability type should always be restored to its
value on entry to the object.
.P
Finally, only functions that are cancel-safe
may be called from a thread that is asynchronously cancelable.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIpthread_cancel\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<pthread.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
