'\" et
.TH PTHREAD_COND_BROADCAST "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
pthread_cond_broadcast,
pthread_cond_signal
\(em broadcast or signal a condition
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <pthread.h>
.P
int pthread_cond_broadcast(pthread_cond_t *\fIcond\fP);
int pthread_cond_signal(pthread_cond_t *\fIcond\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions shall unblock threads blocked on a condition variable.
.P
The
\fIpthread_cond_broadcast\fR()
function shall unblock all threads currently blocked on the specified
condition variable
.IR cond .
.P
The
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR()
function shall unblock at least one of the threads that are blocked
on the specified condition variable
.IR cond
(if any threads are blocked on
.IR cond ).
.P
If more than one thread is blocked on a condition variable, the
scheduling policy shall determine the order in which threads are
unblocked. When each thread unblocked as a result of a
\fIpthread_cond_broadcast\fR()
or
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR()
returns from its call to
\fIpthread_cond_wait\fR()
or
\fIpthread_cond_timedwait\fR(),
the thread shall own the mutex with which it called
\fIpthread_cond_wait\fR()
or
\fIpthread_cond_timedwait\fR().
The thread(s) that are unblocked shall contend for the mutex according
to the scheduling policy (if applicable), and as if each had called
\fIpthread_mutex_lock\fR().
.P
The
\fIpthread_cond_broadcast\fR()
or
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR()
functions may be called by a thread whether or not it currently owns
the mutex that threads calling
\fIpthread_cond_wait\fR()
or
\fIpthread_cond_timedwait\fR()
have associated with the condition variable during their waits;
however, if predictable scheduling behavior is required, then that
mutex shall be locked by the thread calling
\fIpthread_cond_broadcast\fR()
or
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR().
.P
The
\fIpthread_cond_broadcast\fR()
and
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR()
functions shall have no effect if there are no threads currently
blocked on
.IR cond .
.P
The behavior is undefined if the value specified by the
.IR cond
argument to
\fIpthread_cond_broadcast\fR()
or
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR()
does not refer to an initialized condition variable.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If successful, the
\fIpthread_cond_broadcast\fR()
and
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR()
functions shall return zero; otherwise, an error number shall be
returned to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
These functions shall not return an error code of
.BR [EINTR] .
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
\fIpthread_cond_broadcast\fR()
function is used whenever the shared-variable state has been changed in
a way that more than one thread can proceed with its task. Consider a
single producer/multiple consumer problem, where the producer can
insert multiple items on a list that is accessed one item at a time by
the consumers. By calling the
\fIpthread_cond_broadcast\fR()
function, the producer would notify all consumers that might be
waiting, and thereby the application would receive more throughput on a
multi-processor. In addition,
\fIpthread_cond_broadcast\fR()
makes it easier to implement a read-write lock. The
\fIpthread_cond_broadcast\fR()
function is needed in order to wake up all waiting readers when a
writer releases its lock. Finally, the two-phase commit algorithm can
use this broadcast function to notify all clients of an impending
transaction commit.
.P
It is not safe to use the
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR()
function in a signal handler that is invoked asynchronously. Even if
it were safe, there would still be a race between the test of the
Boolean
\fIpthread_cond_wait\fR()
that could not be efficiently eliminated.
.P
Mutexes and condition variables are thus not suitable for releasing a
waiting thread by signaling from code running in a signal handler.
.SH RATIONALE
If an implementation detects that the value specified by the
.IR cond
argument to
\fIpthread_cond_broadcast\fR()
or
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR()
does not refer to an initialized condition variable, it is recommended
that the function should fail and report an
.BR [EINVAL] 
error.
.SS "Multiple Awakenings by Condition Signal"
.P
On a multi-processor, it may be impossible for an implementation of
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR()
to avoid the unblocking of more than one thread blocked on a condition
variable. For example, consider the following partial implementation
of
\fIpthread_cond_wait\fR()
and
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR(),
executed by two threads in the order given. One thread is trying to
wait on the condition variable, another is concurrently executing
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR(),
while a third thread is already waiting.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
pthread_cond_wait(mutex, cond):
    value = cond->value; /* 1 */
    pthread_mutex_unlock(mutex); /* 2 */
    pthread_mutex_lock(cond->mutex); /* 10 */
    if (value == cond->value) { /* 11 */
        me->next_cond = cond->waiter;
        cond->waiter = me;
        pthread_mutex_unlock(cond->mutex);
        unable_to_run(me);
    } else
        pthread_mutex_unlock(cond->mutex); /* 12 */
    pthread_mutex_lock(mutex); /* 13 */
.P
pthread_cond_signal(cond):
    pthread_mutex_lock(cond->mutex); /* 3 */
    cond->value++; /* 4 */
    if (cond->waiter) { /* 5 */
        sleeper = cond->waiter; /* 6 */
        cond->waiter = sleeper->next_cond; /* 7 */
        able_to_run(sleeper); /* 8 */
    }
    pthread_mutex_unlock(cond->mutex); /* 9 */
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
The effect is that more than one thread can return from its call to
\fIpthread_cond_wait\fR()
or
\fIpthread_cond_timedwait\fR()
as a result of one call to
\fIpthread_cond_signal\fR().
This effect is called ``spurious wakeup''.
Note that the situation is self-correcting in that the number of
threads that are so awakened is finite; for example, the next thread to
call
\fIpthread_cond_wait\fR()
after the sequence of events above blocks.
.P
While this problem could be resolved, the loss of efficiency for a
fringe condition that occurs only rarely is unacceptable, especially
given that one has to check the predicate associated with a condition
variable anyway. Correcting this problem would unnecessarily reduce
the degree of concurrency in this basic building block for all
higher-level synchronization operations.
.P
An added benefit of allowing spurious wakeups is that applications are
forced to code a predicate-testing-loop around the condition wait.
This also makes the application tolerate superfluous condition
broadcasts or signals on the same condition variable that may be coded
in some other part of the application. The resulting applications are
thus more robust. Therefore, POSIX.1\(hy2008 explicitly documents that
spurious wakeups may occur.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIpthread_cond_destroy\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpthread_cond_timedwait\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 4.11" ", " "Memory Synchronization",
.IR "\fB<pthread.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
