'\" et
.TH PTHREAD_ATTR_GETDETACHSTATE "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
.ad l
pthread_attr_getdetachstate,
pthread_attr_setdetachstate
\(em get and set the detachstate attribute
.ad b
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <pthread.h>
.P
int pthread_attr_getdetachstate(const pthread_attr_t *\fIattr\fP,
    int *\fIdetachstate\fP);
int pthread_attr_setdetachstate(pthread_attr_t *\fIattr\fP, int \fIdetachstate\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR detachstate
attribute controls whether the thread is created in a detached state.
If the thread is created detached, then use of the ID of the newly
created thread by the
\fIpthread_detach\fR()
or
\fIpthread_join\fR()
function is an error.
.P
The
\fIpthread_attr_getdetachstate\fR()
and
\fIpthread_attr_setdetachstate\fR()
functions, respectively, shall get and set the
.IR detachstate
attribute in the
.IR attr
object.
.P
For
\fIpthread_attr_getdetachstate\fR(),
.IR detachstate
shall be set to either PTHREAD_CREATE_DETACHED or
PTHREAD_CREATE_JOINABLE.
.P
For
\fIpthread_attr_setdetachstate\fR(),
the application shall set
.IR detachstate
to either PTHREAD_CREATE_DETACHED or PTHREAD_CREATE_JOINABLE.
.P
A value of PTHREAD_CREATE_DETACHED shall cause all threads created with
.IR attr
to be in the detached state, whereas using a value of
PTHREAD_CREATE_JOINABLE shall cause all threads created with
.IR attr
to be in the joinable state. The default value of the
.IR detachstate
attribute shall be PTHREAD_CREATE_JOINABLE.
.P
The behavior is undefined if the value specified by the
.IR attr
argument to
\fIpthread_attr_getdetachstate\fR()
or
\fIpthread_attr_setdetachstate\fR()
does not refer to an initialized thread attributes object.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
\fIpthread_attr_getdetachstate\fR()
and
\fIpthread_attr_setdetachstate\fR()
shall return a value of 0; otherwise, an error number shall be
returned to indicate the error.
.P
The
\fIpthread_attr_getdetachstate\fR()
function stores the value of the
.IR detachstate
attribute in
.IR detachstate
if successful.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIpthread_attr_setdetachstate\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The value of
.IR detachstate
was not valid
.P
These functions shall not return an error code of
.BR [EINTR] .
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS "Retrieving the detachstate Attribute"
.P
This example shows how to obtain the
.IR detachstate
attribute of a thread attribute object.
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
#include <pthread.h>
.P
pthread_attr_t thread_attr;
int            detachstate;
int            rc;
.P
/* code initializing thread_attr */
\&...
.P
rc = pthread_attr_getdetachstate (&thread_attr, &detachstate);
if (rc!=0) {
    /* handle error */
    ...
}
else {
    /* legal values for detachstate are:
     * PTHREAD_CREATE_DETACHED or PTHREAD_CREATE_JOINABLE
     */
     ...
}
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
If an implementation detects that the value specified by the
.IR attr
argument to
\fIpthread_attr_getdetachstate\fR()
or
\fIpthread_attr_setdetachstate\fR()
does not refer to an initialized thread attributes object, it is
recommended that the function should fail and report an
.BR [EINVAL] 
error.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIpthread_attr_destroy\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpthread_attr_getstacksize\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpthread_create\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<pthread.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
