'\" et
.TH REWINDDIR "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
rewinddir
\(em reset the position of a directory stream to the beginning
of a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <dirent.h>
.P
void rewinddir(DIR *\fIdirp\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIrewinddir\fR()
function shall reset the position of the directory stream to which
.IR dirp
refers to the beginning of the directory. It shall also cause the
directory stream to refer to the current state of the corresponding
directory, as a call to
\fIopendir\fR()
would have done. If
.IR dirp
does not refer to a directory stream, the effect is undefined.
.P
After a call to the
\fIfork\fR()
function, either the parent or child (but not both) may continue
processing the directory stream using
\fIreaddir\fR(),
\fIrewinddir\fR(),
or
\fIseekdir\fR().
If both the parent and child processes use these functions, the result
is undefined.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
\fIrewinddir\fR()
function shall not return a value.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
\fIrewinddir\fR()
function should be used in conjunction with
\fIopendir\fR(),
\fIreaddir\fR(),
and
\fIclosedir\fR()
to examine the contents of the directory. This method is recommended
for portability.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIclosedir\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfdopendir\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIreaddir\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<dirent.h>\fP",
.IR "\fB<sys_types.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
