'\" et
.TH SCHED_GET_PRIORITY_MAX "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
sched_get_priority_max,
sched_get_priority_min
\(em get priority limits
(\fBREALTIME\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sched.h>
.P
int sched_get_priority_max(int \fIpolicy\fP);
int sched_get_priority_min(int \fIpolicy\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIsched_get_priority_max\fR()
and
\fIsched_get_priority_min\fR()
functions shall return the appropriate maximum or minimum,
respectively, for the scheduling policy specified by
.IR policy .
.P
The value of
.IR policy
shall be one of the scheduling policy values defined in
.IR <sched.h> .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If successful, the
\fIsched_get_priority_max\fR()
and
\fIsched_get_priority_min\fR()
functions shall return the appropriate maximum or minimum values,
respectively. If unsuccessful, they shall return a value of \(mi1 and
set
.IR errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIsched_get_priority_max\fR()
and
\fIsched_get_priority_min\fR()
functions shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The value of the
.IR policy
parameter does not represent a defined scheduling policy.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.ad l
.IR "\fIsched_getparam\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsched_setparam\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsched_getscheduler\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsched_rr_get_interval\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsched_setscheduler\fR\^(\|)"
.ad b
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<sched.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
