'\" et
.TH SCHED_GETSCHEDULER "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
sched_getscheduler
\(em get scheduling policy
(\fBREALTIME\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <sched.h>
.P
int sched_getscheduler(pid_t \fIpid\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIsched_getscheduler\fR()
function shall return the scheduling policy of the process specified by
.IR pid .
If the value of
.IR pid
is negative, the behavior of the
\fIsched_getscheduler\fR()
function is unspecified.
.P
The values that can be returned by
\fIsched_getscheduler\fR()
are defined in the
.IR <sched.h> 
header.
.P
If a process specified by
.IR pid
exists, and if the calling process has permission, the scheduling
policy shall be returned for the process whose process ID is equal to
.IR pid .
.P
If
.IR pid
is zero, the scheduling policy shall be returned for the calling process.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
\fIsched_getscheduler\fR()
function shall return the scheduling policy of the specified process.
If unsuccessful, the function shall return \(mi1 and set
.IR errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIsched_getscheduler\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EPERM
The requesting process does not have permission to determine the
scheduling policy of the specified process.
.TP
.BR ESRCH
No process can be found corresponding to that specified by
.IR pid .
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIsched_getparam\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsched_setparam\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsched_setscheduler\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<sched.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
