'\" et
.TH SEM_GETVALUE "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
sem_getvalue
\(em get the value of a semaphore
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <semaphore.h>
.P
int sem_getvalue(sem_t *restrict \fIsem\fP, int *restrict \fIsval\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIsem_getvalue\fR()
function shall update the location referenced by the
.IR sval
argument to have the value of the semaphore referenced by
.IR sem
without affecting the state of the semaphore. The updated value
represents an actual semaphore value that occurred at some unspecified
time during the call, but it need not be the actual value of the
semaphore when it is returned to the calling process.
.P
If
.IR sem
is locked, then the object to which
.IR sval
points shall either be set to zero or to a negative number whose
absolute value represents the number of processes waiting for the
semaphore at some unspecified time during the call.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
\fIsem_getvalue\fR()
function shall return a value of zero. Otherwise, it shall return
a value of \(mi1 and set
.IR errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIsem_getvalue\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The
.IR sem
argument does not refer to a valid semaphore.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIsemctl\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsemget\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsemop\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsem_post\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsem_timedwait\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsem_trywait\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<semaphore.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
