'\" et
.TH SIGINTERRUPT "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
siginterrupt
\(em allow signals to interrupt functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <signal.h>
.P
int siginterrupt(int \fIsig\fP, int \fIflag\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIsiginterrupt\fR()
function shall change the restart behavior when a function is
interrupted by the specified signal. The function
\fIsiginterrupt\fP(\fIsig\fP, \fIflag\fP) has an effect as if
implemented as:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
int siginterrupt(int sig, int flag) {
    int ret;
    struct sigaction act;
.P
    (void) sigaction(sig, NULL, &act);
    if (flag)
        act.sa_flags &= ~SA_RESTART;
    else
        act.sa_flags |= SA_RESTART;
    ret = sigaction(sig, &act, NULL);
    return ret;
}
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion,
\fIsiginterrupt\fR()
shall return 0; otherwise, \(mi1 shall be returned and
.IR errno
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIsiginterrupt\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The
.IR sig
argument is not a valid signal number.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The
\fIsiginterrupt\fR()
function supports programs written to historical system interfaces.
Applications should use the
\fIsigaction\fR()
with the SA_RESTART flag instead of the obsolescent
\fIsiginterrupt\fR()
function.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "Section 2.4" ", " "Signal Concepts",
.IR "\fIsigaction\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<signal.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
