'\" et
.TH SIGLONGJMP "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
siglongjmp
\(em non-local goto with signal handling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <setjmp.h>
.P
void siglongjmp(sigjmp_buf \fIenv\fP, int \fIval\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIsiglongjmp\fR()
function shall be equivalent to the
\fIlongjmp\fR()
function, except as follows:
.IP " *" 4
References to
\fIsetjmp\fR()
shall be equivalent to
\fIsigsetjmp\fR().
.IP " *" 4
The
\fIsiglongjmp\fR()
function shall restore the saved signal mask if and only if the
.IR env
argument was initialized by a call to
\fIsigsetjmp\fR()
with a non-zero
.IR savemask
argument.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
After
\fIsiglongjmp\fR()
is completed, program execution shall continue as if the corresponding
invocation of
\fIsigsetjmp\fR()
had just returned the value specified by
.IR val .
The
\fIsiglongjmp\fR()
function shall not cause
\fIsigsetjmp\fR()
to return 0; if
.IR val
is 0,
\fIsigsetjmp\fR()
shall return the value 1.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The distinction between
\fIsetjmp\fR()
or
\fIlongjmp\fR()
and
\fIsigsetjmp\fR()
or
\fIsiglongjmp\fR()
is only significant for programs which use
\fIsigaction\fR(),
\fIsigprocmask\fR(),
or
\fIsigsuspend\fR().
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIlongjmp\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpthread_sigmask\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsetjmp\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsigsetjmp\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsigsuspend\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<setjmp.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
