'\" et
.TH SLEEP "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
sleep
\(em suspend execution for an interval of time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <unistd.h>
.P
unsigned sleep(unsigned \fIseconds\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIsleep\fR()
function shall cause the calling thread to be suspended from execution
until either the number of realtime seconds specified by the argument
.IR seconds
has elapsed or a signal is delivered to the calling thread and its
action is to invoke a signal-catching function or to terminate the
process. The suspension time may be longer than requested due to the
scheduling of other activity by the system.
.P
If a SIGALRM signal is generated for the calling process during
execution of
\fIsleep\fR()
and if the SIGALRM signal is being ignored or blocked from delivery, it
is unspecified whether
\fIsleep\fR()
returns when the SIGALRM signal is scheduled. If the signal is being
blocked, it is also unspecified whether it remains pending after
\fIsleep\fR()
returns or it is discarded.
.P
If a SIGALRM signal is generated for the calling process during
execution of
\fIsleep\fR(),
except as a result of a prior call to
\fIalarm\fR(),
and if the SIGALRM signal is not being ignored or blocked from
delivery, it is unspecified whether that signal has any effect other
than causing
\fIsleep\fR()
to return.
.P
If a signal-catching function interrupts
\fIsleep\fR()
and examines or changes either the time a SIGALRM is scheduled to be
generated, the action associated with the SIGALRM signal, or whether
the SIGALRM signal is blocked from delivery, the results are
unspecified.
.P
If a signal-catching function interrupts
\fIsleep\fR()
and calls
\fIsiglongjmp\fR()
or
\fIlongjmp\fR()
to restore an environment saved prior to the
\fIsleep\fR()
call, the action associated with the SIGALRM signal and the time at
which a SIGALRM signal is scheduled to be generated are unspecified.
It is also unspecified whether the SIGALRM signal is blocked, unless
the signal mask of the process is restored as part of the environment.
.P
Interactions between
\fIsleep\fR()
and
\fIsetitimer\fR()
are unspecified.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If
\fIsleep\fR()
returns because the requested time has elapsed, the value returned
shall be 0. If
\fIsleep\fR()
returns due to delivery of a signal, the return value shall be
the ``unslept'' amount (the requested time minus the time actually
slept) in seconds.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
There are two general approaches to the implementation of the
\fIsleep\fR()
function. One is to use the
\fIalarm\fR()
function to schedule a SIGALRM
signal and then suspend the calling thread waiting for that signal. The
other is to implement an independent facility. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 permits either
approach.
.P
In order to comply with the requirement that no primitive shall change
a process attribute unless explicitly described by this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008, an
implementation using SIGALRM must carefully take into account any
SIGALRM signal scheduled by previous
\fIalarm\fR()
calls, the action previously established for SIGALRM, and whether
SIGALRM was blocked. If a SIGALRM has been scheduled before the
\fIsleep\fR()
would ordinarily complete, the
\fIsleep\fR()
must be shortened to that time and a SIGALRM generated (possibly
simulated by direct invocation of the signal-catching function) before
\fIsleep\fR()
returns. If a SIGALRM has been scheduled after the
\fIsleep\fR()
would ordinarily complete, it must be rescheduled for the same time
before
\fIsleep\fR()
returns. The action and blocking for SIGALRM must be saved and
restored.
.P
Historical implementations often implement the SIGALRM-based version
using
\fIalarm\fR()
and
\fIpause\fR().
One such implementation is prone to infinite hangups, as described in
.IR "\fIpause\fR\^(\|)".
Another such implementation uses the C-language
\fIsetjmp\fR()
and
\fIlongjmp\fR()
functions to avoid that window. That implementation introduces a
different problem: when the SIGALRM signal interrupts a signal-catching
function installed by the user to catch a different signal, the
\fIlongjmp\fR()
aborts that signal-catching function. An implementation based on
\fIsigprocmask\fR(),
\fIalarm\fR(),
and
\fIsigsuspend\fR()
can avoid these problems.
.P
Despite all reasonable care, there are several very subtle, but
detectable and unavoidable, differences between the two types of
implementations. These are the cases mentioned in this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 where
some other activity relating to SIGALRM takes place, and the results
are stated to be unspecified. All of these cases are sufficiently
unusual as not to be of concern to most applications.
.P
See also the discussion of the term
.IR realtime
in
.IR "\fIalarm\fR\^(\|)".
.P
Since
\fIsleep\fR()
can be implemented using
\fIalarm\fR(),
the discussion about alarms occurring early under
\fIalarm\fR()
applies to
\fIsleep\fR()
as well.
.P
Application developers should note that the type of the argument
.IR seconds
and the return value of
\fIsleep\fR()
is
.BR unsigned .
That means that a Strictly Conforming POSIX System Interfaces
Application
cannot pass a value greater than the minimum guaranteed value for
{UINT_MAX},
which the ISO\ C standard sets as 65\|535, and any application passing a larger
value is restricting its portability. A different type was considered,
but historical implementations, including those with a 16-bit
.BR int
type, consistently use either
.BR unsigned
or
.BR int .
.P
Scheduling delays may cause the process to return from the
\fIsleep\fR()
function significantly after the requested time. In such cases, the
return value should be set to zero, since the formula (requested time
minus the time actually spent) yields a negative number and
\fIsleep\fR()
returns an
.BR unsigned .
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIalarm\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIgetitimer\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fInanosleep\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpause\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsigaction\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsigsetjmp\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<unistd.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
