'\" et
.TH STDIN "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
stderr,
stdin,
stdout
\(em standard I/O streams
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
.P
extern FILE *stderr, *stdin, *stdout;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
A file with associated buffering is called a
.IR stream
and is declared to be a pointer to a defined type
.BR FILE .
The
\fIfopen\fR()
function shall create certain descriptive data for a stream and return
a pointer to designate the stream in all further transactions. Normally,
there are three open streams with constant pointers declared in the
.IR <stdio.h> 
header and associated with the standard open files.
.P
At program start-up, three streams shall be predefined and need not
be opened explicitly:
.IR "standard input"
(for reading conventional input),
.IR "standard output"
(for writing conventional output), and
.IR "standard error"
(for writing diagnostic output). When opened, the standard error
stream is not fully buffered; the standard input and standard output
streams are fully buffered if and only if the stream can be determined
not to refer to an interactive device.
.P
The following symbolic values in
.IR <unistd.h> 
define the file descriptors that shall be associated with the C-language
.IR stdin ,
.IR stdout ,
and
.IR stderr
when the application is started:
.IP STDIN_FILENO 14
Standard input value,
.IR stdin .
Its value is 0.
.IP STDOUT_FILENO 14
Standard output value,
.IR stdout .
Its value is 1.
.IP STDERR_FILENO 14
Standard error value,
.IR stderr .
Its value is 2.
.P
The
.IR stderr
stream is expected to be open for reading and writing.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
None.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIfclose\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfeof\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIferror\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfileno\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfopen\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfprintf\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfread\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfscanf\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfseek\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIgetc\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIgets\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIpopen\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIputc\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIputs\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIread\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsetbuf\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsetvbuf\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fItmpfile\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIungetc\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIvfprintf\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<stdio.h>\fP",
.IR "\fB<unistd.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
