'\" et
.TH TCSETATTR "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
tcsetattr
\(em set the parameters associated with the terminal
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <termios.h>
.P
int tcsetattr(int \fIfildes\fP, int \fIoptional_actions\fP,
    const struct termios *\fItermios_p\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fItcsetattr\fR()
function shall set the parameters associated with the terminal referred
to by the open file descriptor
.IR fildes
(an open file descriptor associated with a terminal) from the
.BR termios
structure referenced by
.IR termios_p
as follows:
.IP " *" 4
If
.IR optional_actions
is TCSANOW, the change shall occur immediately.
.IP " *" 4
If
.IR optional_actions
is TCSADRAIN, the change shall occur after all output written to
.IR fildes
is transmitted. This function should be used when changing parameters
that affect output.
.IP " *" 4
If
.IR optional_actions
is TCSAFLUSH, the change shall occur after all output written to
.IR fildes
is transmitted, and all input so far received but not read shall be
discarded before the change is made.
.P
If the output baud rate stored in the
.BR termios
structure pointed to by
.IR termios_p
is the zero baud rate, B0, the modem control lines shall no longer
be asserted. Normally, this shall disconnect the line.
.P
If the input baud rate stored in the
.BR termios
structure pointed to by
.IR termios_p
is 0, the input baud rate given to the hardware is the same as the
output baud rate stored in the
.BR termios
structure.
.P
The
\fItcsetattr\fR()
function shall return successfully if it was able to perform any of the
requested actions, even if some of the requested actions could not be
performed. It shall set all the attributes that the implementation
supports as requested and leave all the attributes not supported by
the implementation unchanged. If no part of the request can be honored,
it shall return \(mi1 and set
.IR errno
to
.BR [EINVAL] .
If the input and output baud rates differ and are a combination that is
not supported, neither baud rate shall be changed. A subsequent call to
\fItcgetattr\fR()
shall return the actual state of the terminal device (reflecting both
the changes made and not made in the previous
\fItcsetattr\fR()
call). The
\fItcsetattr\fR()
function shall not change the values found in the
.BR termios
structure under any circumstances.
.P
The effect of
\fItcsetattr\fR()
is undefined if the value of the
.BR termios
structure pointed to by
.IR termios_p
was not derived from the result of a call to
\fItcgetattr\fR()
on
.IR fildes ;
an application should modify only fields and flags defined by this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008
between the call to
\fItcgetattr\fR()
and
\fItcsetattr\fR(),
leaving all other fields and flags unmodified.
.P
No actions defined by this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008, other than a call to
\fItcsetattr\fR(),
a close of the last file descriptor in the system associated with this
terminal device, or an open of the first file descriptor in the system
associated with this terminal device (using the O_TTY_INIT flag if it
is non-zero and the device is not a pseudo-terminal), shall cause any
of the terminal attributes defined by this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 to change.
.P
If
\fItcsetattr\fR()
is called from a process which is a member of a background process
group on a
.IR fildes
associated with its controlling terminal:
.IP " *" 4
If the calling thread is blocking SIGTTOU signals or the process is
ignoring SIGTTOU signals, the operation completes normally and no signal
is sent.
.IP " *" 4
Otherwise, a SIGTTOU signal shall be sent to the process group.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned. Otherwise,
\(mi1 shall be returned and
.IR errno
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fItcsetattr\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EBADF
The
.IR fildes
argument is not a valid file descriptor.
.TP
.BR EINTR
A signal interrupted
\fItcsetattr\fR().
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The
.IR optional_actions
argument is not a supported value, or an attempt was made to change an
attribute represented in the
.BR termios
structure to an unsupported value.
.TP
.BR EIO
The process group of the writing process is orphaned, the calling thread
is not blocking SIGTTOU, and the process is not ignoring SIGTTOU.
.TP
.BR ENOTTY
The file associated with
.IR fildes
is not a terminal.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If trying to change baud rates, applications should call
\fItcsetattr\fR()
then call
\fItcgetattr\fR()
in order to determine what baud rates were actually selected.
.P
In general, there are two reasons for an application to change the
parameters associated with a terminal device:
.IP " 1." 4
The device already has working parameter settings but the application
needs a different behavior, such as non-canonical mode instead of
canonical mode. The application sets (or clears) only a few flags or
.IR c_cc [\^]
values. Typically, the terminal device in this case is either the
controlling terminal for the process or a pseudo-terminal.
.IP " 2." 4
The device is a modem or similar piece of equipment connected by a serial
line, and it was not open before the application opened it. In this case,
the application needs to initialize all of the parameter settings ``from
scratch''. However, since the
.BR termios
structure may include both standard and non-standard parameters, the
application cannot just initialize the whole structure in an arbitrary
way (e.g., using
\fImemset\fR())
as this may cause some of the non-standard parameters to be set
incorrectly, resulting in non-conforming behavior of the terminal
device. Conversely, the application cannot just set the standard
parameters, assuming that the non-standard parameters will already have
suitable values, as the device might previously have been used with
non-conforming parameter settings (and some implementations retain the
settings from one use to the next). The solution is to open the terminal
device using the O_TTY_INIT flag to initialize the terminal device to
have conforming parameter settings, obtain those settings using
\fItcgetattr\fR(),
and then set all of the standard parameters to the desired settings.
.SH RATIONALE
The
\fItcsetattr\fR()
function can be interrupted in the following situations:
.IP " *" 4
It is interrupted while waiting for output to drain.
.IP " *" 4
It is called from a process in a background process group and SIGTTOU
is caught.
.P
See also the RATIONALE section in
.IR "\fItcgetattr\fR\^(\|)".
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
Using an input baud rate of 0 to set the input rate equal to the output
rate may not necessarily be supported in a future version of this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIcfgetispeed\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fItcgetattr\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 11" ", " "General Terminal Interface",
.IR "\fB<termios.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
