'\" et
.TH TIMER_CREATE "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
timer_create
\(em create a per-process timer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <signal.h>
#include <time.h>
.P
int timer_create(clockid_t \fIclockid\fP, struct sigevent *restrict \fIevp\fP,
    timer_t *restrict \fItimerid\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fItimer_create\fR()
function shall create a per-process timer using the specified clock,
.IR clock_id ,
as the timing base. The
\fItimer_create\fR()
function shall return, in the location referenced by
.IR timerid ,
a timer ID of type
.BR timer_t
used to identify the timer in timer requests. This timer ID shall be
unique within the calling process until the timer is deleted. The
particular clock,
.IR clock_id ,
is defined in
.IR <time.h> .
The timer whose ID is returned shall be in a disarmed state upon return
from
\fItimer_create\fR().
.P
The
.IR evp
argument, if non-NULL, points to a
.BR sigevent
structure. This structure, allocated by the application, defines the
asynchronous notification to occur as specified in
.IR "Section 2.4.1" ", " "Signal Generation and Delivery"
when the timer expires. If the
.IR evp
argument is NULL, the effect is as if the
.IR evp
argument pointed to a
.BR sigevent
structure with the
.IR sigev_notify
member having the value SIGEV_SIGNAL, the
.IR sigev_signo
having a default signal number, and the
.IR sigev_value
member having the value of the timer ID.
.P
Each implementation shall define a set of clocks that can be used as
timing bases for per-process timers. All implementations shall support a
.IR clock_id
of CLOCK_REALTIME.
If the Monotonic Clock option is supported, implementations shall
support a
.IR clock_id
of CLOCK_MONOTONIC.
.P
Per-process timers shall not be inherited by a child process across a
\fIfork\fR()
and shall be disarmed and deleted by an
.IR exec .
.P
If _POSIX_CPUTIME is defined, implementations shall support
.IR clock_id
values representing the CPU-time clock of the calling process.
.P
If _POSIX_THREAD_CPUTIME is defined, implementations shall support
.IR clock_id
values representing the CPU-time clock of the calling thread.
.P
It is implementation-defined whether a
\fItimer_create\fR()
function will succeed if the value defined by
.IR clock_id
corresponds to the CPU-time clock of a process or thread different from
the process or thread invoking the function.
.P
If \fIevp\fR\->\fIsigev_sigev_notify\fR is SIGEV_THREAD and
\fIsev\fR\->\fIsigev_notify_attributes\fR is not NULL, if the attribute
pointed to by \fIsev\fR\->\fIsigev_notify_attributes\fR has a thread
stack address specified by a call to
\fIpthread_attr_setstack\fR(),
the results are unspecified if the signal is generated more than once.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If the call succeeds,
\fItimer_create\fR()
shall return zero and update the location referenced by
.IR timerid
to a
.BR timer_t ,
which can be passed to the per-process timer calls. If an error
occurs, the function shall return a value of \(mi1 and set
.IR errno
to indicate the error. The value of
.IR timerid
is undefined if an error occurs.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fItimer_create\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EAGAIN
The system lacks sufficient signal queuing resources to honor the
request.
.TP
.BR EAGAIN
The calling process has already created all of the timers it is allowed
by this implementation.
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The specified clock ID is not defined.
.TP
.BR ENOTSUP
The implementation does not support the creation of a timer attached to
the CPU-time clock that is specified by
.IR clock_id
and associated with a process or thread different from the process or
thread invoking
\fItimer_create\fR().
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
If a timer is created which has \fIevp\fR\->\fIsigev_sigev_notify\fR
set to SIGEV_THREAD and the attribute pointed to by
\fIevp\fR\->\fIsigev_notify_attributes\fR has a thread stack address
specified by a call to
\fIpthread_attr_setstack\fR(),
the memory dedicated as a thread stack cannot be recovered. The reason
for this is that the threads created in response to a timer expiration
are created detached, or in an unspecified way if the thread
attribute's
.IR detachstate
is PTHREAD_CREATE_JOINABLE. In neither case is it valid to call
\fIpthread_join\fR(),
which makes it impossible to determine the lifetime of the created
thread which thus means the stack memory cannot be reused.
.br
.SH RATIONALE
.SS "Periodic Timer Overrun and Resource Allocation"
.P
The specified timer facilities may deliver realtime signals (that is,
queued signals) on implementations that support this option. Since
realtime applications cannot afford to lose notifications of
asynchronous events, like timer expirations or asynchronous I/O
completions, it must be possible to ensure that sufficient resources
exist to deliver the signal when the event occurs. In general, this is
not a difficulty because there is a one-to-one correspondence between a
request and a subsequent signal generation. If the request cannot
allocate the signal delivery resources, it can fail the call with an
.BR [EAGAIN] 
error.
.P
Periodic timers are a special case. A single request can generate an
unspecified number of signals. This is not a problem if the
requesting process can service the signals as fast as they are
generated, thus making the signal delivery resources available for
delivery of subsequent periodic timer expiration signals. But, in
general, this cannot be assured\(emprocessing of periodic timer signals
may ``overrun''; that is, subsequent periodic timer expirations may
occur before the currently pending signal has been delivered.
.P
Also, for signals, according to the POSIX.1\(hy1990 standard, if subsequent occurrences of
a pending signal are generated, it is implementation-defined whether
a signal is delivered for each occurrence. This is not adequate for
some realtime applications. So a mechanism is required to allow
applications to detect how many timer expirations were delayed without
requiring an indefinite amount of system resources to store the delayed
expirations.
.P
The specified facilities provide for an overrun count. The overrun
count is defined as the number of extra timer expirations that occurred
between the time a timer expiration signal is generated and the time
the signal is delivered. The signal-catching function, if it is
concerned with overruns, can retrieve this count on entry. With this
method, a periodic timer only needs one ``signal queuing resource''
that can be allocated at the time of the
\fItimer_create\fR()
function call.
.P
A function is defined to retrieve the overrun count so that an
application need not allocate static storage to contain the count, and
an implementation need not update this storage asynchronously on timer
expirations. But, for some high-frequency periodic applications, the
overhead of an additional system call on each timer expiration may be
prohibitive. The functions, as defined, permit an implementation to
maintain the overrun count in user space, associated with the
.IR timerid .
The
\fItimer_getoverrun\fR()
function can then be implemented as a macro that uses the
.IR timerid
argument (which may just be a pointer to a user space structure
containing the counter) to locate the overrun count with no system call
overhead. Other implementations, less concerned with this class of
applications, can avoid the asynchronous update of user space by
maintaining the count in a system structure at the cost of the extra
system call to obtain it.
.SS "Timer Expiration Signal Parameters"
.P
The Realtime Signals Extension option supports an application-specific
datum that is delivered to the extended signal handler. This value is
explicitly specified by the application, along with the signal number
to be delivered, in a
.BR sigevent
structure. The type of the application-defined value can be either an
integer constant or a pointer. This explicit specification of the
value, as opposed to always sending the
timer ID, was selected based on existing practice.
.P
It is common practice for realtime applications (on non-POSIX systems
or realtime extended POSIX systems) to use the parameters of event
handlers as the case label of a switch statement or as a pointer to an
application-defined data structure. Since
.IR timer_id s
are dynamically allocated by the
\fItimer_create\fR()
function, they can be used for neither of these functions without
additional application overhead in the signal handler; for example, to
search an array of saved timer IDs to associate the ID with a constant
or application data structure.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIclock_getres\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fItimer_delete\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fItimer_getoverrun\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<signal.h>\fP",
.IR "\fB<time.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
