'\" et
.TH TZSET "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
daylight,
timezone,
tzname,
tzset
\(em set timezone conversion information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <time.h>
.P
extern int daylight;
extern long timezone;
extern char *tzname[2];
void tzset(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fItzset\fR()
function shall use the value of the environment variable
.IR TZ
to set time conversion information used by
.IR "\fIctime\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIlocaltime\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImktime\fR\^(\|)",
and
.IR "\fIstrftime\fR\^(\|)".
If
.IR TZ
is absent from the environment, implementation-defined default
timezone information shall be used.
.P
The
\fItzset\fR()
function shall set the external variable
.IR tzname
as follows:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
tzname[0] = "\fIstd\fP";
tzname[1] = "\fIdst\fP";
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
where
.IR std
and
.IR dst
are as described in the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 8" ", " "Environment Variables".
.P
The
\fItzset\fR()
function also shall set the external variable
.IR daylight
to 0 if Daylight Savings Time conversions should never be applied for
the timezone in use; otherwise, non-zero. The external variable
.IR timezone
shall be set to the difference, in seconds, between Coordinated
Universal Time (UTC) and local standard time.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
\fItzset\fR()
function shall not return a value.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
Example
.IR TZ
variables and their timezone differences are given in the table below:
.TS
center box tab(!);
cI | cI
lw(1i) | lw(1i).
TZ!timezone
_
EST5EDT!5*60*60
GMT0!0*60*60
JST-9!\(mi9*60*60
MET-1MEST!\(mi1*60*60
MST7MDT!7*60*60
PST8PDT!8*60*60
.TE
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIctime\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIlocaltime\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImktime\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrftime\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 8" ", " "Environment Variables",
.IR "\fB<time.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
