'\" et
.TH UNSETENV "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
unsetenv
\(em remove an environment variable
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
.P
int unsetenv(const char *\fIname\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIunsetenv\fR()
function shall remove an environment variable from the environment
of the calling process. The
.IR name
argument points to a string, which is the name of the variable to be
removed. The named argument shall not contain an
.BR '=' 
character. If the named variable does not exist in the current
environment, the environment shall be unchanged and the function is
considered to have completed successfully.
.P
The
\fIunsetenv\fR()
function shall update the list of pointers to which
.IR environ
points.
.P
The
\fIunsetenv\fR()
function need not be thread-safe.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, zero shall be returned. Otherwise, \(mi1
shall be returned,
.IR errno
set to indicate the error, and the environment shall be unchanged.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIunsetenv\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The
.IR name
argument points to an empty string, or points to a
string containing an
.BR '=' 
character.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
Refer to the RATIONALE section in
.IR "\fIsetenv\fR\^(\|)".
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIgetenv\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsetenv\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<stdlib.h>\fP",
.IR "\fB<sys_types.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
