'\" et
.TH USELOCALE "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
uselocale
\(em use locale in current thread
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <locale.h>
.P
locale_t uselocale(locale_t \fInewloc\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIuselocale\fR()
function shall set the current locale for the current thread to the
locale represented by
.IR newloc .
.P
The value for the
.IR newloc
argument shall be one of the following:
.IP " 1." 4
A value returned by the
\fInewlocale\fR()
or
\fIduplocale\fR()
functions
.IP " 2." 4
The special locale object descriptor LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE
.IP " 3." 4
(\c
.BR locale_t )0
.P
Once the
\fIuselocale\fR()
function has been called to install a thread-local locale, the behavior
of every interface using data from the current locale shall be affected
for the calling thread. The current locale for other threads shall
remain unchanged.
.P
If the
.IR newloc
argument is (\c
.BR locale_t )0,
the object returned is the current locale or LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE if there
has been no previous call to
\fIuselocale\fR()
for the current thread.
.P
If the
.IR newloc
argument is LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE, the thread shall use the global locale
determined by the
\fIsetlocale\fR()
function.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
\fIuselocale\fR()
function shall return the locale handle from the previous call for the
current thread, or LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE if there was no such previous call.
Otherwise,
\fIuselocale\fR()
shall return (\c
.BR locale_t )0
and set
.IR errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIuselocale\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
.IR locale
is not a valid locale object.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
Unlike the
\fIsetlocale\fR()
function, the
\fIuselocale\fR()
function does not allow replacing some locale categories
only. Applications that need to install a locale which differs only in
a few categories must use
\fInewlocale\fR()
to change a locale object equivalent to the currently used locale and
install it.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIduplocale\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIfreelocale\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fInewlocale\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIsetlocale\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<locale.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
