'\" et
.TH WCSCASECMP "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
wcscasecmp,
wcscasecmp_l,
wcsncasecmp,
wcsncasecmp_l
\(em case-insensitive wide-character string comparison
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>
.P
int wcscasecmp(const wchar_t *\fIws1\fP, const wchar_t *\fIws2\fP);
int wcscasecmp_l(const wchar_t *\fIws1\fP, const wchar_t *\fIws2\fP,
    locale_t \fIlocale\fP);
int wcsncasecmp(const wchar_t *\fIws1\fP, const wchar_t *\fIws2\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);
int wcsncasecmp_l(const wchar_t *\fIws1\fP, const wchar_t *\fIws2\fP,
    size_t \fIn\fP, locale_t \fIlocale\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIwcscasecmp\fR()
and
\fIwcsncasecmp\fR()
functions are the wide-character equivalent of the
\fIstrcasecmp\fR()
and
\fIstrncasecmp\fR()
functions, respectively.
.P
The
\fIwcscasecmp\fR()
and
\fIwcscasecmp_l\fR()
functions shall compare, while ignoring differences in case, the
wide-character string pointed to by
.IR ws1
to the wide-character string pointed to by
.IR ws2 .
.P
The
\fIwcsncasecmp\fR()
and
\fIwcsncasecmp_l\fR()
functions shall compare, while ignoring differences in case, not more
than
.IR n
wide-characters from the wide-character string pointed to by
.IR ws1
to the wide-character string pointed to by
.IR ws2 .
.P
The
\fIwcscasecmp\fR()
and
\fIwcsncasecmp\fR()
functions use the current locale to determine the case of the wide
characters.
.P
The
\fIwcscasecmp_l\fR()
and
\fIwcsncasecmp_l\fR()
functions use the locale represented by
.IR locale
to determine the case of the wide characters.
.P
When the
.IR LC_CTIME
category of the locale being used is from the POSIX locale, these
functions shall behave as if the wide-character strings had been converted
to lowercase and then a comparison of wide-character codes performed.
Otherwise, the results are unspecified.
.P
The information for
\fIwcscasecmp_l\fR()
and
\fIwcsncasecmp_l\fR()
about the case of the characters comes from the locale represented by
.IR locale .
.P
The behavior is undefined if the
.IR locale
argument to
\fIwcscasecmp_l\fR()
or
\fIwcsncasecmp_l\fR()
is the special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE or is not a valid locale
object handle.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon completion, the
\fIwcscasecmp\fR()
and
\fIwcscasecmp_l\fR()
functions shall return an integer greater than, equal to, or less than 0
if the wide-character string pointed to by
.IR ws1
is, ignoring case, greater than, equal to, or less than the
wide-character string pointed to by
.IR ws2 ,
respectively.
.P
Upon completion, the
\fIwcsncasecmp\fR()
and
\fIwcsncasecmp_l\fR()
functions shall return an integer greater than, equal to, or less than 0
if the possibly null wide-character terminated string pointed to by
.IR ws1
is, ignoring case, greater than, equal to, or less than the possibly
null wide-character terminated string pointed to by
.IR ws2 ,
respectively.
.P
No return values are reserved to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIstrcasecmp\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwcscmp\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwcsncmp\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<wchar.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
