'\" et
.TH WCSDUP "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
wcsdup
\(em duplicate a wide-character string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>
.P
wchar_t *wcsdup(const wchar_t *\fIstring\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIwcsdup\fR()
function is the wide-character equivalent of the
\fIstrdup\fR()
function.
.P
The
\fIwcsdup\fR()
function shall return a pointer to a new wide-character string,
allocated as if by a call to
\fImalloc\fR(),
which is the duplicate of the wide-character string
.IR string .
The returned pointer can be passed to
\fIfree\fR().
A null pointer is returned if the new wide-character string cannot be
created.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the
\fIwcsdup\fR()
function shall return a pointer to the newly allocated wide-character
string. Otherwise, it shall return a null pointer and set
.IR errno
to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIwcsdup\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR ENOMEM
Memory large enough for the duplicate string could not be allocated.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
For functions that allocate memory as if by
\fImalloc\fR(),
the application should release such memory when it is no longer
required by a call to
\fIfree\fR().
For
\fIwcsdup\fR(),
this is the return value.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIfree\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIstrdup\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwcscpy\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<wchar.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
