'\" et
.TH WCSXFRM "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
wcsxfrm,
wcsxfrm_l
\(em wide-character string transformation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>
.P
size_t wcsxfrm(wchar_t *restrict \fIws1\fP, const wchar_t *restrict \fIws2\fP,
    size_t \fIn\fP);
size_t wcsxfrm_l(wchar_t *restrict \fIws1\fP, const wchar_t *restrict \fIws2\fP,
    size_t \fIn\fP, locale_t \fIlocale\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
For
\fIwcsxfrm\fR():
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
The
\fIwcsxfrm\fR()
and
\fIwcsxfrm_l\fR()
functions shall transform the wide-character string pointed to by
.IR ws2
and place the resulting wide-character string into the array pointed to
by
.IR ws1 .
The transformation shall be such that if
\fIwcscmp\fR()
is applied to two transformed wide strings, it shall return a value
greater than, equal to, or less than 0, corresponding to the result of
\fIwcscoll\fR()
and
\fIwcscoll_l\fR()
applied to the same two original wide-character strings, and the same
.IR LC_COLLATE
category of the current locale
or the locale object
.IR locale ,
respectively. No more than
.IR n
wide-character codes shall be placed into the resulting array pointed
to by
.IR ws1 ,
including the terminating null wide-character code. If
.IR n
is 0,
.IR ws1
is permitted to be a null pointer. If copying takes place between
objects that overlap, the behavior is undefined.
.P
The
\fIwcsxfrm\fR()
and
\fIwcsxfrm_l\fR()
functions shall not change the setting of
.IR errno
if successful.
.P
Since no return value is reserved to indicate an error, an
application wishing to check for error situations should set
.IR errno
to 0, then call
\fIwcsxfrm\fR()
or
\fIwcsxfrm_l\fR(),
then check
.IR errno .
.P
The behavior is undefined if the
.IR locale
argument to
\fIwcsxfrm_l\fR()
is the special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE or is not a valid locale
object handle.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
\fIwcsxfrm\fR()
and
\fIwcsxfrm_l\fR()
functions shall return the length of the transformed wide-character
string (not including the terminating null wide-character code). If the
value returned is
.IR n
or more, the contents of the array pointed to by
.IR ws1
are unspecified.
.P
On error, the
\fIwcsxfrm\fR()
and
\fIwcsxfrm_l\fR()
functions may set
.IR errno ,
but no return value is reserved to indicate an error.
.SH ERRORS
These functions may fail if:
.TP
.BR EINVAL
The wide-character string pointed to by
.IR ws2
contains wide-character codes outside the domain of the collating
sequence.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The transformation function is such that two transformed wide-character
strings can be ordered by
\fIwcscmp\fR()
as appropriate to collating sequence information in the current locale
(category
.IR LC_COLLATE ).
.P
The fact that when
.IR n
is 0
.IR ws1
is permitted to be a null pointer is useful to determine the size of
the
.IR ws1
array prior to making the transformation.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIwcscmp\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwcscoll\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<wchar.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
