'\" et
.TH WCTOMB "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
wctomb
\(em convert a wide-character code to a character
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <stdlib.h>
.P
int wctomb(char *\fIs\fP, wchar_t \fIwchar\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
The
\fIwctomb\fR()
function shall determine the number of bytes needed to represent the
character corresponding to the wide-character code whose value is
.IR wchar
(including any change in the shift state). It shall store the character
representation (possibly multiple bytes and any special bytes to change
shift state) in the array object pointed to by
.IR s
(if
.IR s
is not a null pointer). At most
{MB_CUR_MAX}
bytes shall be stored. If
.IR wchar
is 0, a null byte shall be stored, preceded by any shift sequence
needed to restore the initial shift state, and
\fIwctomb\fR()
shall be left in the initial shift state.
.P
The behavior of this function is affected by the
.IR LC_CTYPE
category of the current locale. For a state-dependent encoding, this
function shall be placed into its initial state by a call for which its
character pointer argument,
.IR s ,
is a null pointer. Subsequent calls with
.IR s
as other than a null pointer shall cause the internal state of the
function to be altered as necessary. A call with
.IR s
as a null pointer shall cause this function to return a non-zero value
if encodings have state dependency, and 0 otherwise. Changing the
.IR LC_CTYPE
category causes the shift state of this function to be unspecified.
.P
The
\fIwctomb\fR()
function need not be thread-safe.
.P
The implementation shall behave as if no function defined in this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008
calls
\fIwctomb\fR().
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
If
.IR s
is a null pointer,
\fIwctomb\fR()
shall return a non-zero or 0 value, if character encodings,
respectively, do or do not have state-dependent encodings. If
.IR s
is not a null pointer,
\fIwctomb\fR()
shall return \(mi1 if the value of
.IR wchar
does not correspond to a valid character, or return the number of
bytes that constitute the character corresponding to the value of
.IR wchar .
.P
In no case shall the value returned be greater than the value of the
{MB_CUR_MAX}
macro.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIwctomb\fR()
function shall fail if:
.TP
.BR EILSEQ
An invalid wide-character code is detected.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fImblen\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImbtowc\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fImbstowcs\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwcstombs\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<stdlib.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
