'\" et
.TH WCTYPE "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
wctype,
wctype_l
\(em define character class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wctype.h>
.P
wctype_t wctype(const char *\fIproperty\fP);
wctype_t wctype_l(const char *\fIproperty\fP, locale_t \fIlocale\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
For
\fIwctype\fR():
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
The
\fIwctype\fR()
and
\fIwctype_l\fR()
functions are defined for valid character class names as defined
in the current locale
or in the locale represented by
.IR locale ,
respectively.
.P
The
.IR property
argument is a string identifying a generic character class for which
codeset-specific type information is required. The following character
class names shall be defined in all locales:
.sp
.RS
.TS
tab(!);
lB lB lB.
T{
.nf
alnum
alpha
blank
cntrl
T}!T{
.nf
digit
graph
lower
print
T}!T{
.nf
punct
space
upper
xdigit
.fi
T}
.TE
.RE
.P
Additional character class names defined in the locale definition file
(category
.IR LC_CTYPE )
can also be specified.
.P
These functions shall return a value of type
.BR wctype_t ,
which can be used as the second argument to subsequent calls of
\fIiswctype\fR()
and
\fIiswctype_l\fR().
.P
The
\fIwctype\fR()
and
\fIwctype_l\fR()
functions shall determine values of
.BR wctype_t
according to the rules of the coded character set defined by character
type information in the current locale
or in the locale represented by
.IR locale ,
respectively (category
.IR LC_CTYPE ).
.P
The values returned by
\fIwctype\fR()
shall be valid until a call to
\fIsetlocale\fR()
that modifies the category
.IR LC_CTYPE .
.P
The values returned by
\fIwctype_l\fR()
shall be valid only in calls to
\fIiswctype_l\fR()
with a locale represented by
.IR locale
with the same
.IR LC_CTYPE
category value.
.P
The behavior is undefined if the
.IR locale
argument to
\fIwctype_l\fR()
is the special locale object LC_GLOBAL_LOCALE or is not a valid locale
object handle.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
\fIwctype\fR()
and
\fIwctype_l\fR()
functions shall return 0 if the given character class name is not
valid for the current locale (category
.IR LC_CTYPE );
otherwise, they shall return an object of type
.BR wctype_t
that can be used in calls to
\fIiswctype\fR()
and
\fIiswctype_l\fR().
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIiswctype\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<wctype.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
