'\" et
.TH WMEMMOVE "3P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
wmemmove
\(em copy wide characters in memory with overlapping areas
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <wchar.h>
.P
wchar_t *wmemmove(wchar_t *\fIws1\fP, const wchar_t *\fIws2\fP, size_t \fIn\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The functionality described on this reference page is aligned with the
ISO\ C standard. Any conflict between the requirements described here and the
ISO\ C standard is unintentional. This volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 defers to the ISO\ C standard.
.P
The
\fIwmemmove\fR()
function shall copy
.IR n
wide characters from the object pointed to by
.IR ws2
to the object pointed to by
.IR ws1 .
Copying shall take place as if the
.IR n
wide characters from the object pointed to by
.IR ws2
are first copied into a temporary array of
.IR n
wide characters that does not overlap the objects pointed to by
.IR ws1
or
.IR ws2 ,
and then the
.IR n
wide characters from the temporary array are copied into the object
pointed to by
.IR ws1 .
.P
This function shall not be affected by locale and all
.BR wchar_t
values shall be treated identically. The null wide character and
.BR wchar_t
values not corresponding to valid characters shall not be treated
specially.
.P
If
.IR n
is zero, the application shall ensure that
.IR ws1
and
.IR ws2
are valid pointers, and the function shall copy zero wide characters.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The
\fIwmemmove\fR()
function shall return the value of
.IR ws1 .
.SH ERRORS
No errors are defined
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIwmemchr\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwmemcmp\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwmemcpy\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIwmemset\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<wchar.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
