'\" et
.TH CXREF "1P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
cxref
\(em generate a C-language program cross-reference table
(\fBDEVELOPMENT\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
cxref \fB[\fR\(mics\fB] [\fR\(mio \fIfile\fB] [\fR\(miw \fInum\fB] [\fR\(miD \fIname\fB[\fR=\fIdef\fB]]\fR...\fB [\fR\(miI \fIdir\fB]\fR...
    \fB[\fR\(miU \fIname\fB]\fR... \fIfile\fR...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR cxref
utility shall analyze a collection of C-language
.IR file s
and attempt to build a cross-reference table. Information from
.BR #define
lines shall be included in the symbol table. A sorted listing shall be
written to standard output of all symbols (auto, static, and global) in
each
.IR file
separately, or with the
.BR \(mic
option, in combination. Each symbol shall contain an
<asterisk>
before the declaring reference.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.IR cxref
utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines",
except that the order of the
.BR \(miD ,
.BR \(miI ,
and
.BR \(miU
options (which are identical to their interpretation by
.IR c99 )
is significant. The following options shall be supported:
.IP "\fB\(mic\fP" 10
Write a combined cross-reference of all input files.
.IP "\fB\(mis\fP" 10
Operate silently; do not print input filenames.
.IP "\fB\(mio\ \fIfile\fR" 10
Direct output to named
.IR file .
.IP "\fB\(miw\ \fInum\fR" 10
Format output no wider than
.IR num
(decimal) columns. This option defaults to 80 if
.IR num
is not specified or is less than 51.
.IP "\fB\(miD\fP" 10
Equivalent to
.IR c99 .
.IP "\fB\(miI\fP" 10
Equivalent to
.IR c99 .
.IP "\fB\(miU\fP" 10
Equivalent to
.IR c99 .
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand shall be supported:
.IP "\fIfile\fR" 10
A pathname of a C-language source file.
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
The input files are C-language source files.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables shall affect the execution of
.IR cxref :
.IP "\fILANG\fP" 10
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are
unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 8.2" ", " "Internationalization Variables"
for the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine
the values of locale categories.)
.IP "\fILC_ALL\fP" 10
If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the
other internationalization variables.
.IP "\fILC_COLLATE\fP" 10
.br
Determine the locale for the ordering of the output.
.IP "\fILC_CTYPE\fP" 10
Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to
multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).
.IP "\fILC_MESSAGES\fP" 10
.br
Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and
contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.
.IP "\fINLSPATH\fP" 10
Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
Default.
.SH STDOUT
The standard output shall be used for the cross-reference listing,
unless the
.BR \(mio
option is used to select a different output file.
.P
The format of standard output is unspecified, except that the following
information shall be included:
.IP " *" 4
If the
.BR \(mic
option is not specified, each portion of the listing shall start
with the name of the input file on a separate line.
.IP " *" 4
The name line shall be followed by a sorted list of symbols, each with
its associated location pathname, the name of the function in which it
appears (if it is not a function name itself), and line number
references.
.IP " *" 4
Each line number may be preceded by an
<asterisk>
(\c
.BR '*' )
flag, meaning that this is the declaring reference. Other
single-character flags, with implementation-defined meanings, may be
included.
.SH STDERR
The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
The output file named by the
.BR \(mio
option shall be used instead of standard output.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values shall be returned:
.IP "\00" 6
Successful completion.
.IP >0 6
An error occurred.
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIc99\fR\^"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 8" ", " "Environment Variables",
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
