'\" et
.TH EXIT "1P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
exit
\(em cause the shell to exit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
exit \fB[\fIn\fB]\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR exit
utility shall cause the shell to exit with the exit status specified
by the unsigned decimal integer
.IR n .
If
.IR n
is specified, but its value is not between 0 and 255 inclusively, the
exit status is undefined.
.P
A
.IR trap
on
.BR EXIT
shall be executed before the shell terminates, except when the
.IR exit
utility is invoked in that
.IR trap
itself, in which case the shell shall exit immediately.
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.SH OPERANDS
See the DESCRIPTION.
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
None.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
Default.
.SH STDOUT
Not used.
.SH STDERR
The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The exit status shall be
.IR n ,
if specified. Otherwise, the value shall be the exit value of the last
command executed, or zero if no command was executed. When
.IR exit
is executed in a
.IR trap
action, the last command is considered to be the command that executed
immediately preceding the
.IR trap
action.
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
Exit with a
.IR true
value:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
exit 0
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
Exit with a
.IR false
value:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
exit 1
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SH "RATIONALE"
As explained in other sections, certain exit status values have been
reserved for special uses and should be used by applications only for
those purposes:
.IP "\0126" 8
A file to be executed was found, but it was not an executable utility.
.IP "\0127" 8
A utility to be executed was not found.
.IP >128 8
A command was interrupted by a signal.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "Section 2.14" ", " "Special Built-In Utilities"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
