'\" et
.TH QHOLD "1P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
qhold
\(em hold batch jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
qhold \fB[\fR\(mih \fIhold_list\fB] \fIjob_identifier\fR...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A hold is placed on a batch job by a request to the batch server that
manages the batch job. A batch job that has one or more holds is not
eligible for execution. The
.IR qhold
utility is a user-accessible client of batch services that requests one
or more types of hold to be placed on one or more batch jobs.
.P
The
.IR qhold
utility shall place holds on those batch jobs for which a batch
.IR job_identifier
is presented to the utility.
.P
The
.IR qhold
utility shall place holds on batch jobs in the order in which their
batch
.IR job_identifier s
are presented to the utility. If the
.IR qhold
utility fails to process any batch
.IR job_identifier
successfully, the utility shall proceed to process the remaining batch
.IR job_identifier s,
if any.
.P
The
.IR qhold
utility shall place holds on each batch job by sending a
.IR "Hold Job Request"
to the batch server that manages the batch job.
.P
The
.IR qhold
utility shall not exit until holds have been placed on the batch job
corresponding to each successfully processed batch
.IR job_identifier .
.SH OPTIONS
The
.IR qhold
utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines".
.P
The following option shall be supported by the implementation:
.IP "\fB\(mih\ \fIhold_list\fR" 10
Define the types of holds to be placed on the batch job.
.RS 10 
.P
The
.IR qhold
.BR \(mih
option shall accept a value for the
.IR hold_list
option-argument that is a string of alphanumeric characters in the
portable character set (see the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 6.1" ", " "Portable Character Set").
.P
The
.IR qhold
utility shall accept a value for the
.IR hold_list
option-argument that is a string of one or more of the characters
.BR 'u' ,
.BR 's' ,
or
.BR 'o' ,
or the single character
.BR 'n' .
.P
For each unique character in the
.IR hold_list
option-argument, the
.IR qhold
utility shall add a value to the
.IR Hold_Types
attribute of the batch job as follows, each representing a different
hold type:
.IP "\fRu\fP" 6
USER
.IP "\fRs\fP" 6
SYSTEM
.IP "\fRo\fP" 6
OPERATOR
.P
If any of these characters are duplicated in the
.IR hold_list
option-argument, the duplicates shall be ignored.
.P
An existing
.IR Hold_Types
attribute can be cleared by the following hold type:
.IP "\fRn\fP" 6
NO_HOLD
.P
The
.IR qhold
utility shall consider it an error if any hold type other than
.BR 'n' 
is combined with hold type
.BR 'n' .
.P
Strictly conforming applications shall not repeat any of the characters
.BR 'u' ,
.BR 's' ,
.BR 'o' ,
or
.BR 'n' 
within the
.IR hold_list
option-argument. The
.IR qhold
utility shall permit the repetition of characters, but shall not assign
additional meaning to the repeated characters.
.P
An implementation may define other hold types. The conformance document
for an implementation shall describe any additional hold types, how
they are specified, their internal behavior, and how they affect the
behavior of the utility.
.P
If the
.BR \(mih
option is not presented to the
.IR qhold
utility, the implementation shall set the
.IR Hold_Types
attribute to USER.
.RE
.SH OPERANDS
The
.IR qhold
utility shall accept one or more operands that conform to the syntax
for a batch
.IR job_identifier
(see
.IR "Section 3.3.1" ", " "Batch Job Identifier").
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables shall affect the execution of
.IR qhold :
.IP "\fILANG\fP" 10
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are
unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 8.2" ", " "Internationalization Variables"
the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine the
values of locale categories.)
.IP "\fILC_ALL\fP" 10
If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the
other internationalization variables.
.IP "\fILC_CTYPE\fP" 10
Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to
multi-byte characters in arguments).
.IP "\fILC_MESSAGES\fP" 10
.br
Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and
contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.
.IP "\fILOGNAME\fP" 10
Determine the login name of the user.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
Default.
.SH STDOUT
None.
.SH STDERR
The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.br
The following exit values shall be returned:
.IP "\00" 6
Successful completion.
.IP >0 6
An error occurred.
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
In addition to the default behavior, the
.IR qhold
utility shall not be required to write a diagnostic message to standard
error when the error reply received from a batch server indicates that
the batch
.IR job_identifier
does not exist on the server. Whether or not the
.IR qhold
utility waits to output the diagnostic message while attempting to
locate the job on other servers is implementation-defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH RATIONALE
The
.IR qhold
utility allows users to place a hold on one or more jobs. A hold makes
a batch job ineligible for execution.
.P
The
.IR qhold
utility has options that allow the user to specify the type of hold.
Should the user wish to place a hold on a set of jobs that meet a
selection criteria, such a list of jobs can be acquired using the
.IR qselect
utility.
.P
The
.BR \(mih
option allows the user to specify the type of hold that is to be placed
on the job. This option allows for USER, SYSTEM, OPERATOR, and
implementation-defined hold types. The USER and OPERATOR holds are
distinct. The batch server that manages the batch job will verify that
the user is authorized to set the specified hold for the batch job.
.P
Mail is not required on hold because the administrator has the tools
and libraries to build this option if he or she wishes.
.P
Historically, the
.IR qhold
utility has been a part of some existing batch systems, although it has
not traditionally been a part of the NQS.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
The
.IR qhold
utility may be removed in a future version.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "Chapter 3" ", " "Batch Environment Services",
.IR "\fIqselect\fR\^"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 6.1" ", " "Portable Character Set",
.IR "Chapter 8" ", " "Environment Variables",
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
