'\" et
.TH QSIG "1P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
qsig
\(em signal batch jobs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
qsig \fB[\fR\(mis \fIsignal\fB] \fIjob_identifier\fR...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
To signal a batch job is to send a signal to the session leader of the
batch job. A batch job is signaled by sending a request to the batch
server that manages the batch job. The
.IR qsig
utility is a user-accessible batch client that requests the signaling
of a batch job.
.P
The
.IR qsig
utility shall signal those batch jobs for which a batch
.IR job_identifier
is presented to the utility. The
.IR qsig
utility shall not signal any batch jobs whose batch
.IR job_identifier s
are not presented to the utility.
.P
The
.IR qsig
utility shall signal batch jobs in the order in which the corresponding
batch
.IR job_identifier s
are presented to the utility. If the
.IR qsig
utility fails to process a batch
.IR job_identifier
successfully, the utility shall proceed to process the remaining batch
.IR job_identifier s,
if any.
.P
The
.IR qsig
utility shall signal batch jobs by sending a
.IR "Signal Job Request"
to the batch server that manages the batch job.
.P
For each successfully processed batch
.IR job_identifier ,
the
.IR qsig
utility shall have received a completion reply to each
.IR "Signal Job Request"
sent to a batch server at the time the utility exits.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.IR qsig
utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines".
.P
The following option shall be supported by the implementation:
.IP "\fB\(mis\ \fIsignal\fR" 10
Define the signal to be sent to the batch job.
.RS 10 
.P
The
.IR qsig
utility shall accept a
.IR signal
option-argument that is either a symbolic signal name or an unsigned
integer signal number (see the POSIX.1\(hy1990 standard, Section 3.3.1.1). The
.IR qsig
utility shall accept signal names for which the SIG prefix has been
omitted.
.P
If the
.IR signal
option-argument is a signal name, the
.IR qsig
utility shall send that name.
.P
If the
.IR signal
option-argument is a number, the
.IR qsig
utility shall send the signal value represented by the number.
.P
If the
.BR \(mis
option is not presented to the
.IR qsig
utility, the utility shall send the signal SIGTERM to each signaled
batch job.
.RE
.SH OPERANDS
The
.IR qsig
utility shall accept one or more operands that conform to the syntax
for a batch
.IR job_identifier
(see
.IR "Section 3.3.1" ", " "Batch Job Identifier").
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables shall affect the execution of
.IR qsig :
.IP "\fILANG\fP" 10
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are
unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 8.2" ", " "Internationalization Variables"
the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine the
values of locale categories.)
.IP "\fILC_ALL\fP" 10
If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the
other internationalization variables.
.IP "\fILC_CTYPE\fP" 10
Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to
multi-byte characters in arguments).
.IP "\fILC_MESSAGES\fP" 10
.br
Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and
contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.
.IP "\fILOGNAME\fP" 10
Determine the login name of the user.
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
Default.
.SH STDOUT
An implementation of the
.IR qsig
utility may write informative messages to standard output.
.SH STDERR
The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values shall be returned:
.IP "\00" 6
Successful completion.
.IP >0 6
An error occurred.
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
In addition to the default behavior, the
.IR qsig
utility shall not be required to write a diagnostic message to standard
error when the error reply received from a batch server indicates that
the batch
.IR job_identifier
does not exist on the server. Whether or not the
.IR qsig
utility waits to output the diagnostic message while attempting to
locate the batch job on other servers is implementation-defined.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH RATIONALE
The
.IR qsig
utility allows users to signal batch jobs.
.P
A user may be unable to signal a batch job with the
.IR kill
utility of the operating system for a number of reasons. First, the
process ID of the batch job may be unknown to the user. Second, the
processes of the batch job may be on a remote node. However, by virtue
of communication between batch nodes, the
.IR qsig
utility can arrange for the signaling of a process.
.P
Because a batch job that is not running cannot be signaled, and because
the signal may not terminate the batch job, the
.IR qsig
utility is not a substitute for the
.IR qdel
utility.
.P
The options of the
.IR qsig
utility allow the user to specify the signal that is to be sent to the
batch job.
.P
The
.BR \(mis
option allows users to specify a signal by name or by number, and thus
override the default signal. The POSIX.1\(hy1990 standard defines signals by both name and
number.
.P
The
.IR qsig
utility is a new utility, \fIvis-a-vis\fP existing practice; it has
been defined in this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 in response to user-perceived shortcomings in
existing practice.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
The
.IR qsig
utility may be removed in a future version.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "Chapter 3" ", " "Batch Environment Services",
.IR "\fIkill\fR\^",
.IR "\fIqdel\fR\^"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 8" ", " "Environment Variables",
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
