'\" et
.TH SCCS "1P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
sccs
\(em front end for the SCCS subsystem (\fBDEVELOPMENT\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
sccs \fB[\fR\(mir\fB] [\fR\(mid \fIpath\fB] [\fR\(mip \fIpath\fB] \fIcommand \fB[\fIoptions\fR...\fB] [\fIoperands\fR...\fB]\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR sccs
utility is a front end to the SCCS programs. It also includes the
capability to run set-user-id to another user to provide additional
protection.
.P
The
.IR sccs
utility shall invoke the specified
.IR command
with the specified
.IR options
and
.IR operands .
By default, each of the
.IR operands
shall be modified by prefixing it with the string
.BR \(dqSCCS/s.\(dq .
.P
The
.IR command
can be the name of one of the SCCS utilities in this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 (\c
.IR admin ,
.IR delta ,
.IR get ,
.IR prs ,
.IR rmdel ,
.IR sact ,
.IR unget ,
.IR val ,
or
.IR what )
or one of the pseudo-utilities listed in the EXTENDED DESCRIPTION
section.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.IR sccs
utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines",
except that
.IR options
operands are actually options to be passed to the utility named by
.IR command .
When the portion of the command:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
\fIcommand \fB[\fIoptions\fR ... \fB] [\fIoperands\fR ... \fB]\fR
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
is considered, all of the pseudo-utilities used as
.IR command
shall support the Utility Syntax Guidelines. Any of the other SCCS
utilities that can be invoked in this manner support the Guidelines to
the extent indicated by their individual OPTIONS sections.
.P
The following options shall be supported preceding the
.IR command
operand:
.IP "\fB\(mid\ \fIpath\fR" 10
A pathname of a directory to be used as a root directory for the SCCS
files. The default shall be the current directory. The
.BR \(mid
option shall take precedence over the
.IR PROJECTDIR
variable. See
.BR \(mip .
.IP "\fB\(mip\ \fIpath\fR" 10
A pathname of a directory in which the SCCS files are located. The
default shall be the
.BR SCCS
directory.
.RS 10 
.P
The
.BR \(mip
option differs from the
.BR \(mid
option in that the
.BR \(mid
option-argument shall be prefixed to the entire pathname and the
.BR \(mip
option-argument shall be inserted before the final component of the
pathname. For example:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sccs \(mid /x \(mip y get a/b
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
converts to:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
get /x/a/y/s.b
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
This allows the creation of aliases such as:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
alias syssccs="sccs \(mid /usr/src"
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
which is used as:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
syssccs get cmd/who.c
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.RE
.IP "\fB\(mir\fP" 10
Invoke
.IR command
with the real user ID of the process, not any effective user ID that
the
.IR sccs
utility is set to. Certain commands (\c
.IR admin ,
.BR check ,
.BR clean ,
.BR diffs ,
.BR info ,
.IR rmdel ,
and
.BR tell )
cannot be run set-user-ID by all users, since this would allow anyone
to change the authorizations. These commands are always run as the
real user.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operands shall be supported:
.IP "\fIcommand\fR" 10
An SCCS utility name or the name of one of the pseudo-utilities listed
in the EXTENDED DESCRIPTION section.
.IP "\fIoptions\fR" 10
An option or option-argument to be passed to
.IR command .
.IP "\fIoperands\fR" 10
An operand to be passed to
.IR command .
.SH STDIN
See the utility description for the specified
.IR command .
.SH "INPUT FILES"
See the utility description for the specified
.IR command .
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables shall affect the execution of
.IR sccs :
.IP "\fILANG\fP" 10
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are
unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 8.2" ", " "Internationalization Variables"
for the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine
the values of locale categories.)
.IP "\fILC_ALL\fP" 10
If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the
other internationalization variables.
.IP "\fILC_CTYPE\fP" 10
Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to
multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).
.IP "\fILC_MESSAGES\fP" 10
.br
Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and
contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.
.IP "\fINLSPATH\fP" 10
Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.IP "\fIPROJECTDIR\fP" 10
.br
Provide a default value for the
.BR \(mid
.IR path
option. If the value of
.IR PROJECTDIR
begins with a
<slash>,
it shall be considered an absolute pathname; otherwise, the value of
.IR PROJECTDIR
is treated as a user name and that user's initial working directory
shall be examined for a subdirectory
.BR src
or
.BR source .
If such a directory is found, it shall be used. Otherwise, the value
shall be used as a relative pathname.
.P
Additional environment variable effects may be found in the utility
description for the specified
.IR command .
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
Default.
.SH STDOUT
See the utility description for the specified
.IR command .
.SH STDERR
See the utility description for the specified
.IR command .
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
See the utility description for the specified
.IR command .
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
The following pseudo-utilities shall be supported as
.IR command
operands. All options referred to in the following list are values
given in the
.IR options
operands following
.IR command .
.IP "\fBcheck\fR" 8
Equivalent to
.BR info ,
except that nothing shall be printed if nothing is being edited, and a
non-zero exit status shall be returned if anything is being edited. The
intent is to have this included in an ``install'' entry in a makefile
to ensure that everything is included into the SCCS file before a
version is installed.
.IP "\fBclean\fR" 8
Remove everything from the current directory that can be recreated from
SCCS files, but do not remove any files being edited. If the
.BR \(mib
option is given, branches shall be ignored in the determination of
whether they are being edited; this is dangerous if branches are kept
in the same directory.
.IP "\fBcreate\fR" 8
Create an SCCS file, taking the initial contents from the file of the
same name. Any options to
.IR admin
are accepted. If the creation is successful, the original files shall
be renamed by prefixing the basenames with a comma. These renamed files
should be removed after it has been verified that the SCCS files have
been created successfully.
.IP "\fBdelget\fR" 8
Perform a
.IR delta
on the named files and then
.IR get
new versions. The new versions shall have ID keywords expanded and
shall not be editable. Any
.BR \(mim ,
.BR \(mip ,
.BR \(mir ,
.BR \(mis ,
and
.BR \(miy
options shall be passed to
.IR delta ,
and any
.BR \(mib ,
.BR \(mic ,
.BR \(mie ,
.BR \(mii ,
.BR \(mik ,
.BR \(mil ,
.BR \(mis ,
and
.BR \(mix
options shall be passed to
.IR get .
.IP "\fBdeledit\fR" 8
Equivalent to
.BR delget ,
except that the
.IR get
phase shall include the
.BR \(mie
option. This option is useful for making a checkpoint of the current
editing phase. The same options shall be passed to
.IR delta
as described above, and all the options listed for
.IR get
above except
.BR \(mie
shall be passed to
.BR edit .
.IP "\fBdiffs\fR" 8
Write a difference listing between the current version of the files
checked out for editing and the versions in SCCS format. Any
.BR \(mir ,
.BR \(mic ,
.BR \(mii ,
.BR \(mix ,
and
.BR \(mit
options shall be passed to
.IR get ;
any
.BR \(mil ,
.BR \(mis ,
.BR \(mie ,
.BR \(mif ,
.BR \(mih ,
and
.BR \(mib
options shall be passed to
.IR diff .
A
.BR \(miC
option shall be passed to
.IR diff
as
.BR \(mic .
.IP "\fBedit\fR" 8
Equivalent to
.IR get
.BR \(mie .
.IP "\fBfix\fR" 8
Remove the named delta, but leave a copy of the delta with the changes
that were in it. It is useful for fixing small compiler bugs, and so
on. The application shall ensure that it is followed by a
.BR \(mir
.IR SID
option. Since
.BR fix
does not leave audit trails, it should be used carefully.
.IP "\fBinfo\fR" 8
Write a listing of all files being edited. If the
.BR \(mib
option is given, branches (that is, SIDs with two or fewer components)
shall be ignored. If a
.BR \(miu
.IR user
option is given, then only files being edited by the named user shall
be listed. A
.BR \(miU
option shall be equivalent to
.BR \(miu <\c
.IR "current\ user" >.
.IP "\fBprint\fR" 8
Write out verbose information about the named files, equivalent to
.IR sccs
.IR prs .
.IP "\fBtell\fR" 8
Write a
<newline>-separated
list of the files being edited to standard output. Takes the
.BR \(mib ,
.BR \(miu ,
and
.BR \(miU
options like
.BR info
and
.BR check .
.IP "\fBunedit\fR" 8
This is the opposite of an
.BR edit
or a
.IR get
.BR \(mie .
It should be used with caution, since any changes made since the
.IR get
are lost.
.br
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values shall be returned:
.IP "\00" 6
Successful completion.
.IP >0 6
An error occurred.
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
Many of the SCCS utilities take directory names as operands as well as
specific filenames. The pseudo-utilities supported by
.IR sccs
are not described as having this capability, but are not prohibited
from doing so.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP " 1." 4
To get a file for editing, edit it and produce a new delta:
.RS 4 
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sccs get \(mie file.c
ex file.c
sccs delta file.c
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.RE
.IP " 2." 4
To get a file from another directory:
.RS 4 
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sccs \(mip /usr/src/sccs/s. get cc.c
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
or:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sccs get /usr/src/sccs/s.cc.c
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.RE
.IP " 3." 4
To make a delta of a large number of files in the current directory:
.RS 4 
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sccs delta *.c
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.RE
.IP " 4." 4
To get a list of files being edited that are not on branches:
.RS 4 
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sccs info \(mib
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.RE
.IP " 5." 4
To delta everything being edited by the current user:
.RS 4 
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sccs delta $(sccs tell \(miU)
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.RE
.IP " 6." 4
In a makefile, to get source files from an SCCS file if it does not
already exist:
.RS 4 
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
SRCS = <\fIlist of source files\fP>
$(SRCS):
    sccs get $(REL) $@
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.RE
.SH RATIONALE
.IR sccs
and its associated utilities are part of the XSI Development
Utilities option within the XSI option.
.P
SCCS is an abbreviation for Source Code Control System. It is a
maintenance and enhancement tracking tool. When a file is put under
SCCS, the source code control system maintains the file and, when
changes are made, identifies and stores them in the file with the
original source code and/or documentation. As other changes are made,
they too are identified and retained in the file.
.P
Retrieval of the original and any set of changes is possible. Any
version of the file as it develops can be reconstructed for inspection
or additional modification. History data can be stored with each
version, documenting why the changes were made, who made them, and when
they were made.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIadmin\fR\^",
.IR "\fIdelta\fR\^",
.IR "\fIget\fR\^",
.IR "\fImake\fR\^",
.IR "\fIprs\fR\^",
.IR "\fIrmdel\fR\^",
.IR "\fIsact\fR\^",
.IR "\fIunget\fR\^",
.IR "\fIval\fR\^",
.IR "\fIwhat\fR\^"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 8" ", " "Environment Variables",
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
