'\" et
.TH SORT "1P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
sort
\(em sort, merge, or sequence check text files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
sort \fB[\fR\(mim\fB] [\fR\(mio \fIoutput\fB] [\fR\(mibdfinru\fB] [\fR\(mit \fIchar\fB] [\fR\(mik \fIkeydef\fB]\fR... \fB[\fIfile\fR...\fB]\fR
.P
sort \fB[\fR\(mic|\(miC\fB] [\fR\(mibdfinru\fB] [\fR\(mit \fIchar\fB] [\fR\(mik \fIkeydef\fB] [\fIfile\fB]\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR sort
utility shall perform one of the following functions:
.IP " 1." 4
Sort lines of all the named files together and write the result to
the specified output.
.IP " 2." 4
Merge lines of all the named (presorted) files together and write the
result to the specified output.
.IP " 3." 4
Check that a single input file is correctly presorted.
.P
Comparisons shall be based on one or more sort keys extracted from each
line of input (or, if no sort keys are specified, the entire line up
to, but not including, the terminating
<newline>),
and shall be performed using the collating sequence of the current
locale.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.IR sort
utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines",
except for Guideline 9, and the
.BR \(mik
.IR keydef
option should follow the
.BR \(mib ,
.BR \(mid ,
.BR \(mif ,
.BR \(mii ,
.BR \(min ,
and
.BR \(mir
options. In addition,
.BR '\(pl' 
may be recognized as an option delimiter as well as
.BR '\(mi' .
.P
The following options shall be supported:
.IP "\fB\(mic\fP" 10
Check that the single input file is ordered as specified by the
arguments and the collating sequence of the current locale. Output
shall not be sent to standard output. The exit code shall indicate
whether or not disorder was detected or an error occurred. If
disorder (or, with
.BR \(miu ,
a duplicate key) is detected, a warning message shall be sent to
standard error indicating where the disorder or duplicate key
was found.
.IP "\fB\(miC\fP" 10
Same as
.BR \(mic ,
except that a warning message shall not be sent to standard error
if disorder or, with
.BR \(miu ,
a duplicate key is detected.
.IP "\fB\(mim\fP" 10
Merge only; the input file shall be assumed to be already sorted.
.IP "\fB\(mio\ \fIoutput\fR" 10
Specify the name of an output file to be used instead of the standard
output. This file can be the same as one of the input
.IR file s.
.IP "\fB\(miu\fP" 10
Unique: suppress all but one in each set of lines having equal keys.
If used with the
.BR \(mic
option, check that there are no lines with duplicate keys, in addition
to checking that the input file is sorted.
.P
The following options shall override the default ordering rules. When
ordering options appear independent of any key field specifications,
the requested field ordering rules shall be applied globally to all
sort keys. When attached to a specific key (see
.BR \(mik ),
the specified ordering options shall override all global ordering
options for that key.
.IP "\fB\(mid\fP" 10
Specify that only
<blank>
characters and alphanumeric characters, according to the current
setting of
.IR LC_CTYPE ,
shall be significant in comparisons. The behavior is undefined for a
sort key to which
.BR \(mii
or
.BR \(min
also applies.
.IP "\fB\(mif\fP" 10
Consider all lowercase characters that have uppercase equivalents,
according to the current setting of
.IR LC_CTYPE ,
to be the uppercase equivalent for the purposes of comparison.
.IP "\fB\(mii\fP" 10
Ignore all characters that are non-printable, according to the current
setting of
.IR LC_CTYPE .
The behavior is undefined for a sort key for which
.BR \(min
also applies.
.IP "\fB\(min\fP" 10
Restrict the sort key to an initial numeric string, consisting of
optional
<blank>
characters, optional minus-sign, and zero or more digits with an
optional radix character and thousands separators (as defined in the
current locale), which shall be sorted by arithmetic value. An empty
digit string shall be treated as zero. Leading zeros and signs on zeros
shall not affect ordering.
.IP "\fB\(mir\fP" 10
Reverse the sense of comparisons.
.P
The treatment of field separators can be altered using the options:
.IP "\fB\(mib\fP" 10
Ignore leading
<blank>
characters when determining the starting and ending positions of a
restricted sort key. If the
.BR \(mib
option is specified before the first
.BR \(mik
option, it shall be applied to all
.BR \(mik
options. Otherwise, the
.BR \(mib
option can be attached independently to each
.BR \(mik
.IR field_start
or
.IR field_end
option-argument (see below).
.IP "\fB\(mit\ \fIchar\fR" 10
Use
.IR char
as the field separator character;
.IR char
shall not be considered to be part of a field (although it can be
included in a sort key). Each occurrence of
.IR char
shall be significant (for example, <\fIchar\fR><\fIchar\fR> delimits an
empty field). If
.BR \(mit
is not specified,
<blank>
characters shall be used as default field separators; each maximal
non-empty sequence of
<blank>
characters that follows a non-\c
<blank>
shall be a field separator.
.P
Sort keys can be specified using the options:
.IP "\fB\(mik\ \fIkeydef\fR" 10
The
.IR keydef
argument is a restricted sort key field definition. The format of this
definition is:
.RS 10 
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
\fIfield_start\fB[\fItype\fB][\fR,\fIfield_end\fB[\fItype\fB]]\fR
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
where
.IR field_start
and
.IR field_end
define a key field restricted to a portion of the line (see the
EXTENDED DESCRIPTION section), and
.IR type
is a modifier from the list of characters
.BR 'b' ,
.BR 'd' ,
.BR 'f' ,
.BR 'i' ,
.BR 'n' ,
.BR 'r' .
The
.BR 'b' 
modifier shall behave like the
.BR \(mib
option, but shall apply only to the
.IR field_start
or
.IR field_end
to which it is attached. The other modifiers shall behave like the
corresponding options, but shall apply only to the key field to which
they are attached; they shall have this effect if specified with
.IR field_start ,
.IR field_end ,
or both. If any modifier is attached to a
.IR field_start
or to a
.IR field_end ,
no option shall apply to either. Implementations shall support at
least nine occurrences of the
.BR \(mik
option, which shall be significant in command line order. If no
.BR \(mik
option is specified, a default sort key of the entire line shall be
used.
.P
When there are multiple key fields, later keys shall be compared only
after all earlier keys compare equal. Except when the
.BR \(miu
option is specified, lines that otherwise compare equal shall be
ordered as if none of the options
.BR \(mid ,
.BR \(mif ,
.BR \(mii ,
.BR \(min ,
or
.BR \(mik
were present (but with
.BR \(mir
still in effect, if it was specified) and with all bytes in the lines
significant to the comparison. The order in which lines that still
compare equal are written is unspecified.
.RE
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand shall be supported:
.IP "\fIfile\fR" 10
A pathname of a file to be sorted, merged, or checked. If no
.IR file
operands are specified, or if a
.IR file
operand is
.BR '\(mi' ,
the standard input shall be used.
.SH STDIN
The standard input shall be used only if no
.IR file
operands are specified, or if a
.IR file
operand is
.BR '\(mi' .
See the INPUT FILES section.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
The input files shall be text files, except that the
.IR sort
utility shall add a
<newline>
to the end of a file ending with an incomplete last line.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables shall affect the execution of
.IR sort :
.IP "\fILANG\fP" 10
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are
unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 8.2" ", " "Internationalization Variables"
for the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine
the values of locale categories.)
.IP "\fILC_ALL\fP" 10
If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the
other internationalization variables.
.IP "\fILC_COLLATE\fP" 10
.br
Determine the locale for ordering rules.
.IP "\fILC_CTYPE\fP" 10
Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to
multi-byte characters in arguments and input files) and the behavior of
character classification for the
.BR \(mib ,
.BR \(mid ,
.BR \(mif ,
.BR \(mii ,
and
.BR \(min
options.
.IP "\fILC_MESSAGES\fP" 10
.br
Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and
contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.
.IP "\fILC_NUMERIC\fP" 10
.br
Determine the locale for the definition of the radix character and
thousands separator for the
.BR \(min
option.
.IP "\fINLSPATH\fP" 10
Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
Default.
.SH STDOUT
Unless the
.BR \(mio
or
.BR \(mic
options are in effect, the standard output shall contain the sorted
input.
.SH STDERR
The standard error shall be used for diagnostic messages. When
.BR \(mic
is specified, if disorder is detected (or if
.BR \(miu
is also specified and a duplicate key is detected), a message shall
be written to the standard error which identifies the input line at
which disorder (or a duplicate key) was detected. A warning
message about correcting an incomplete last line of an input file
may be generated, but need not affect the final exit status.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
If the
.BR \(mio
option is in effect, the sorted input shall be written to the file
.IR output .
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
The notation:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
\(mik \fIfield_start\fB[\fItype\fB][\fR,\fIfield_end\fB[\fItype\fB]]\fR
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
shall define a key field that begins at
.IR field_start
and ends at
.IR field_end
inclusive, unless
.IR field_start
falls beyond the end of the line or after
.IR field_end ,
in which case the key field is empty. A missing
.IR field_end
shall mean the last character of the line.
.P
A field comprises a maximal sequence of non-separating characters and,
in the absence of option
.BR \(mit ,
any preceding field separator.
.P
The
.IR field_start
portion of the
.IR keydef
option-argument shall have the form:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
\fIfield_number\fB[\fR.\fIfirst_character\fB]\fR
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
Fields and characters within fields shall be numbered starting with 1.
The
.IR field_number
and
.IR first_character
pieces, interpreted as positive decimal integers, shall specify the
first character to be used as part of a sort key. If
.IR .first_character
is omitted, it shall refer to the first character of the field.
.P
The
.IR field_end
portion of the
.IR keydef
option-argument shall have the form:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
\fIfield_number\fB[\fR.\fIlast_character\fB]\fR
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
The
.IR field_number
shall be as described above for
.IR field_start.
The
.IR last_character
piece, interpreted as a non-negative decimal integer, shall specify the
last character to be used as part of the sort key. If
.IR last_character
evaluates to zero or
.IR .last_character
is omitted, it shall refer to the last character of the field specified
by
.IR field_number .
.P
If the
.BR \(mib
option or
.BR b
type modifier is in effect, characters within a field shall be counted
from the first non-\c
<blank>
in the field. (This shall apply separately to
.IR first_character
and
.IR last_character .)
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values shall be returned:
.IP "\00" 6
All input files were output successfully, or
.BR \(mic
was specified and the input file was correctly sorted.
.IP "\01" 6
Under the
.BR \(mic
option, the file was not ordered as specified, or if the
.BR \(mic
and
.BR \(miu
options were both specified, two input lines were found with equal
keys.
.IP >1 6
An error occurred.
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
The default value for
.BR \(mit ,
<blank>,
has different properties from, for example,
.BR \(mit \c
"<space>". If a line contains:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
<space><space>foo
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
the following treatment would occur with default separation as opposed
to specifically selecting a
<space>:
.TS
center box tab(@);
cB | cB | cB
n | l | l.
Field@Default@\(mit "<space>"
_
1@<space><space>foo@\fIempty\fP
2@\fIempty\fP@\fIempty\fP
3@\fIempty\fP@foo
.TE
.P
The leading field separator itself is included in a field when
.BR \(mit
is not used. For example, this command returns an exit status of zero,
meaning the input was already sorted:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sort \(mic \(mik 2 <<eof
y<tab>b
x<space>a
eof
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
(assuming that a
<tab>
precedes the
<space>
in the current collating sequence). The field separator is not included
in a field when it is explicitly set via
.BR \(mit .
This is historical practice and allows usage such as:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sort \(mit "|" \(mik 2n <<eof
Atlanta|425022|Georgia
Birmingham|284413|Alabama
Columbia|100385|South Carolina
eof
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
where the second field can be correctly sorted numerically without
regard to the non-numeric field separator.
.P
The wording in the OPTIONS section clarifies that the
.BR \(mib ,
.BR \(mid ,
.BR \(mif ,
.BR \(mii ,
.BR \(min ,
and
.BR \(mir
options have to come before the first sort key specified if they are
intended to apply to all specified keys. The way it is described in
\&this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008 matches historical practice, not historical documentation.
The results are unspecified if these options are specified after a
.BR \(mik
option.
.P
The
.BR \(mif
option might not work as expected in locales where there is not a
one-to-one mapping between an uppercase and a lowercase letter.
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP " 1." 4
The following command sorts the contents of
.BR infile
with the second field as the sort key:
.RS 4 
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sort \(mik 2,2 infile
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.RE
.IP " 2." 4
The following command sorts, in reverse order, the contents of
.BR infile1
and
.BR infile2 ,
placing the output in
.BR outfile
and using the second character of the second field as the sort key
(assuming that the first character of the second field is the field
separator):
.RS 4 
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sort \(mir \(mio outfile \(mik 2.2,2.2 infile1 infile2
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.RE
.IP " 3." 4
The following command sorts the contents of
.BR infile1
and
.BR infile2
using the second non-\c
<blank>
of the second field as the sort key:
.RS 4 
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sort \(mik 2.2b,2.2b infile1 infile2
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.RE
.IP " 4." 4
The following command prints the System\ V password file (user
database) sorted by the numeric user ID (the third
<colon>-separated
field):
.RS 4 
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sort \(mit : \(mik 3,3n /etc/passwd
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.RE
.IP " 5." 4
The following command prints the lines of the already sorted file
.BR infile ,
suppressing all but one occurrence of lines having the same third
field:
.RS 4 
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sort \(mium \(mik 3.1,3.0 infile
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.RE
.SH RATIONALE
Examples in some historical documentation state that options
.BR \(mium
with one input file keep the first in each set of lines with equal
keys. This behavior was deemed to be an implementation artifact and
was not standardized.
.P
The
.BR \(miz
option was omitted; it is not standard practice on most systems and is
inconsistent with using
.IR sort
to sort several files individually and then merge them together. The
text concerning
.BR \(miz
in historical documentation appeared to require implementations to
determine the proper buffer length during the sort phase of operation,
but not during the merge.
.P
The
.BR \(miy
option was omitted because of non-portability. The
.BR \(miM
option, present in System V, was omitted because of non-portability in
international usage.
.P
An undocumented
.BR \(miT
option exists in some implementations. It is used to specify a
directory for intermediate files. Implementations are encouraged to
support the use of the
.IR TMPDIR
environment variable instead of adding an option to support this
functionality.
.P
The
.BR \(mik
option was added to satisfy two objections. First, the zero-based
counting used by
.IR sort
is not consistent with other utility conventions. Second, it did not
meet syntax guideline requirements.
.P
Historical documentation indicates that ``setting
.BR \(min
implies
.BR \(mib ''.
The description of
.BR \(min
already states that optional leading <blank>s are tolerated in doing
the comparison. If
.BR \(mib
is enabled, rather than implied, by
.BR \(min ,
this has unusual side-effects. When a character offset is used in a
column of numbers (for example, to sort modulo 100), that offset is
measured relative to the most significant digit, not to the column.
Based upon a recommendation from the author of the original
.IR sort
utility, the
.BR \(mib
implication has been omitted from this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008, and an application wishing to
achieve the previously mentioned side-effects has to code the
.BR \(mib
flag explicitly.
.P
Earlier versions of this standard allowed the
.BR \(mio
option to appear after operands. Historical practice allowed all
options to be interspersed with operands. This version of the
standard allows implementations to accept options after operands
but conforming applications should not use this form.
.P
Earlier versions of this standard also allowed the
.BR \(mi \c
.IR number
and
.BR \(pl \c
.IR number
options. These options are no longer specified by POSIX.1\(hy2008 but may
be present in some implementations.
.P
Historical implementations produced a message on standard error when
.BR \(mic
was specified and disorder was detected, and when
.BR \(mic
and
.BR \(miu
were specified and a duplicate key was detected. An earlier version of
this standard contained wording that did not make it clear that this
message was allowed and some implementations removed this message to
be sure that they conformed to the standard's requirements. Confronted
with this difference in behavior, interactive users that wanted to be
sure that they got visual feedback instead of just exit code 1 could
have used a command like:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
sort \(mic file || echo disorder
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
whether or not the
.IR sort
utility provided a message in this case. But, it was not easy for a user
to find where the disorder or duplicate key occurred on implementations
that do not produce a message, especially when some parts of the input
line were not part of the key and when one or more of the
.BR \(mib ,
.BR \(mid ,
.BR \(mif ,
.BR \(mii ,
.BR \(min ,
or
.BR \(mi r
options or
.IR keydef
type modifiers were in use. POSIX.1\(hy2008 requires a message to be
produced in this case. POSIX.1\(hy2008 also contains the
.BR \(miC
option giving users the ability to choose either behavior.
.P
When a disorder or duplicate is found when the
.BR \(mic
option is specified, some implementations print a message containing
the first line that is out of order or contains a duplicate key; others
print a message specifying the line number of the offending line. This
standard allows either type of message.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIcomm\fR\^",
.IR "\fIjoin\fR\^",
.IR "\fIuniq\fR\^"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 8" ", " "Environment Variables",
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines"
.P
The System Interfaces volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fItoupper\fR\^(\|)"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
