'\" et
.TH STRIP "1P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
strip
\(em remove unnecessary information from strippable files
(\fBDEVELOPMENT\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
strip \fIfile\fR...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
A strippable file is defined as a relocatable, object, or executable
file.
On XSI-conformant systems, a strippable file can also be an archive
of object or relocatable files.
.P
The
.IR strip
utility shall remove from strippable files named by the
.IR file
operands any information the implementor deems unnecessary for
execution of those files. The nature of that information is
unspecified. The effect of
.IR strip
on object and executable files shall be similar to the use of the
.BR \(mis
option to
.IR c99
or
.IR fort77 .
The effect of
.IR strip
on an archive of object files shall be similar to the use of the
.BR \(mis
option to
.IR c99
or
.IR fort77
for each object file in the archive.
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.SH OPERANDS
The following operand shall be supported:
.IP "\fIfile\fR" 10
A pathname referring to a strippable file.
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
The input files shall be in the form of strippable files successfully
produced by any compiler defined by this volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008
or produced by creating or updating an archive of such files
using the
.IR ar
utility.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables shall affect the execution of
.IR strip :
.IP "\fILANG\fP" 10
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are
unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 8.2" ", " "Internationalization Variables"
for the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine
the values of locale categories.)
.IP "\fILC_ALL\fP" 10
If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the
other internationalization variables.
.IP "\fILC_CTYPE\fP" 10
Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to
multi-byte characters in arguments).
.IP "\fILC_MESSAGES\fP" 10
.br
Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and
contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error.
.IP "\fINLSPATH\fP" 10
Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
Default.
.SH STDOUT
Not used.
.SH STDERR
The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
The
.IR strip
utility shall produce strippable files of unspecified format.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values shall be returned:
.IP "\00" 6
Successful completion.
.IP >0 6
An error occurred.
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH RATIONALE
Historically, this utility has been used to remove the symbol table
from a strippable file. It was included since it is known that the
amount of symbolic information can amount to several megabytes; the
ability to remove it in a portable manner was deemed important,
especially for smaller systems.
.P
The behavior of
.IR strip
on object and executable files is said to be the same as the
.BR \(mis
option to a compiler. While the end result is essentially the same,
it is not required to be identical.
.P
XSI-conformant systems support use of
.IR strip
on archive files containing object files or relocatable files.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIar\fR\^",
.IR "\fIc99\fR\^",
.IR "\fIfort77\fR\^"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 8" ", " "Environment Variables"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
