'\" et
.TH UUSTAT "1P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
uustat
\(em uucp status enquiry and job control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
uustat \fB[\fR\(miq|\(mik \fIjobid\fR|\(mir \fIjobid\fB]\fR
.P
uustat \fB[\fR\(mis \fIsystem\fB] [\fR\(miu \fIuser\fB]\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR uustat
utility shall display the status of, or cancel, previously specified
.IR uucp
requests, or provide general status on
.IR uucp
connections to other systems.
.P
When no options are given,
.IR uustat
shall write to standard output the status of all
.IR uucp
requests issued by the current user.
.P
Typical implementations of this utility require a communications line
configured to use the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 11" ", " "General Terminal Interface",
but other communications means may be used. On systems where there are
no available communications means (either temporarily or permanently),
this utility shall write an error message describing the problem and
exit with a non-zero exit status.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.IR uustat
utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines".
.P
The following options shall be supported:
.IP "\fB\(miq\fP" 10
Write the jobs queued for each machine.
.IP "\fB\(mik\ \fIjobid\fR" 10
Kill the
.IR uucp
request whose job identification is
.IR jobid .
The application shall ensure that the killed
.IR uucp
request belongs to the person invoking
.IR uustat
unless that user has appropriate privileges.
.IP "\fB\(mir\ \fIjobid\fR" 10
Rejuvenate
.IR jobid .
The files associated with
.IR jobid
are touched so that their modification time is set to the current
time. This prevents the cleanup program from deleting the job until
the jobs modification time reaches the limit imposed by the program.
.IP "\fB\(mis\ \fIsystem\fR" 10
Write the status of all
.IR uucp
requests for remote system
.IR system .
.IP "\fB\(miu\ \fIuser\fR" 10
Write the status of all
.IR uucp
requests issued by
.IR user .
.SH OPERANDS
None.
.SH STDIN
Not used.
.SH "INPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables shall affect the execution of
.IR uustat :
.IP "\fILANG\fP" 10
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are
unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 8.2" ", " "Internationalization Variables"
for the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine
the values of locale categories.)
.IP "\fILC_ALL\fP" 10
If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the
other internationalization variables.
.IP "\fILC_CTYPE\fP" 10
Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to
multi-byte characters in arguments).
.IP "\fILC_MESSAGES\fP" 10
.br
Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and
contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error, and
informative messages written to standard output.
.IP "\fINLSPATH\fP" 10
Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
Default.
.SH STDOUT
The standard output shall consist of information about each job
selected, in an unspecified format. The information shall include at
least the job ID, the user ID or name, and the remote system name.
.SH STDERR
The standard error shall be used only for diagnostic messages.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values shall be returned:
.IP "\00" 6
Successful completion.
.IP >0 6
An error occurred.
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
This utility is part of the UUCP Utilities option and need not be
supported by all implementations.
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIuucp\fR\^"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 8" ", " "Environment Variables",
.IR "Chapter 11" ", " "General Terminal Interface",
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
