'\" et
.TH VAL "1P" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"
.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.
The Linux implementation of this interface may differ (consult
the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior),
or the interface may not be implemented on Linux.

.SH NAME
val
\(em validate SCCS files (\fBDEVELOPMENT\fP)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
val \(mi
.P
val \fB[\fR\(mis\fB] [\fR\(mim \fIname\fB] [\fR\(mir \fISID\fB] [\fR\(miy \fItype\fB] \fIfile\fR...
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.IR val
utility shall determine whether the specified
.IR file
is an SCCS file meeting the characteristics specified by the options.
.SH OPTIONS
The
.IR val
utility shall conform to the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines",
except that the usage of the
.BR '\(mi' 
operand is not strictly as intended by the guidelines (that is, reading
options and operands from standard input).
.P
The following options shall be supported:
.IP "\fB\(mim\ \fIname\fR" 10
Specify a
.IR name ,
which is compared with the SCCS %\fBM\fP% keyword in
.IR file ;
see
.IR "\fIget\fR\^".
.IP "\fB\(mir\ \fISID\fR" 10
Specify a
.IR SID
(SCCS Identification String), an SCCS delta number. A check shall be
made to determine whether the
.IR SID
is ambiguous (for example,
.BR "\(mir\ 1"
is ambiguous because it physically does not exist but implies 1.1, 1.2,
and so on, which may exist) or invalid (for example,
.BR "\(mir\ 1.0"
or
.BR "\(mir\ 1.1.0"
are invalid because neither case can exist as a valid delta number).
If the
.IR SID
is valid and not ambiguous, a check shall be made to determine whether
it actually exists.
.IP "\fB\(mis\fP" 10
Silence the diagnostic message normally written to standard output for
any error that is detected while processing each named file on a given
command line.
.IP "\fB\(miy\ \fItype\fR" 10
Specify a
.IR type ,
which shall be compared with the SCCS %\fBY\fP% keyword in
.IR file ;
see
.IR "\fIget\fR\^".
.SH OPERANDS
The following operands shall be supported:
.IP "\fIfile\fR" 10
A pathname of an existing SCCS file. If exactly one
.IR file
operand appears, and it is
.BR '\(mi' ,
the standard input shall be read: each line shall be independently
processed as if it were a command line argument list. (However, the
line is not subjected to any of the shell word expansions, such as
parameter expansion or quote removal.)
.SH STDIN
The standard input shall be a text file used only when the
.IR file
operand is specified as
.BR '\(mi' .
.SH "INPUT FILES"
Any SCCS files processed shall be files of an unspecified format.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
The following environment variables shall affect the execution of
.IR val :
.IP "\fILANG\fP" 10
Provide a default value for the internationalization variables that are
unset or null. (See the Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Section 8.2" ", " "Internationalization Variables"
for the precedence of internationalization variables used to determine
the values of locale categories.)
.IP "\fILC_ALL\fP" 10
If set to a non-empty string value, override the values of all the
other internationalization variables.
.IP "\fILC_CTYPE\fP" 10
Determine the locale for the interpretation of sequences of bytes of
text data as characters (for example, single-byte as opposed to
multi-byte characters in arguments and input files).
.IP "\fILC_MESSAGES\fP" 10
.br
Determine the locale that should be used to affect the format and
contents of diagnostic messages written to standard error, and
informative messages written to standard output.
.IP "\fINLSPATH\fP" 10
Determine the location of message catalogs for the processing of
.IR LC_MESSAGES .
.SH "ASYNCHRONOUS EVENTS"
Default.
.SH STDOUT
The standard output shall consist of informative messages about either:
.IP " 1." 4
Each file processed
.IP " 2." 4
Each command line read from standard input
.P
If the standard input is not used, for each
.IR file
operand yielding a discrepancy, the output line shall have the
following format:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
"%s: %s\en", <\fIpathname\fR>, <\fIunspecified string\fR>
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
If the standard input is used, for each input line yielding a discrepancy,
the output shall have the following format:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
"%s\en\en %s: %s\en", <\fIinput\fR>, <\fIpathname\fR>, <\fIunspecified string\fR>
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.P
where <\fIinput\fP> is the input line minus its terminating
<newline>.
.SH STDERR
Not used.
.SH "OUTPUT FILES"
None.
.SH "EXTENDED DESCRIPTION"
None.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The 8-bit code returned by
.IR val
shall be a disjunction of the possible errors; that is, it can be
interpreted as a bit string where set bits are interpreted as follows:
.TS
tab(@);
l c l.
0x80@\&=@Missing file argument.
0x40@\&=@Unknown or duplicate option.
0x20@\&=@Corrupted SCCS file.
0x10@\&=@Cannot open file or file not SCCS.
0x08@\&=@\fISID\fR is invalid or ambiguous.
0x04@\&=@\fISID\fR does not exist.
0x02@\&=@%\fBY\fR%, \fB\(miy\fR mismatch.
0x01@\&=@%\fBM\fR%, \fB\(mim\fR mismatch.
.TE
.P
Note that
.IR val
can process two or more files on a given command line and can process
multiple command lines (when reading the standard input). In these
cases an aggregate code shall be returned: a logical OR of the codes
generated for each command line and file processed.
.SH "CONSEQUENCES OF ERRORS"
Default.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
Since the
.IR val
exit status sets the 0x80 bit, shell applications checking
.BR \(dq$?\(dq 
cannot tell if it terminated due to a missing file argument or receipt
of a signal.
.SH EXAMPLES
In a directory with three SCCS files\(em\c
.BR s.x
(of
.BR t
type ``text''),
.BR s.y ,
and
.BR s.z
(a corrupted file)\(emthe following command could produce the output
shown:
.sp
.RS 4
.nf
\fB
val \(mi <<EOF
\(miy source s.x
\(mim y s.y
s.z
EOF
\(miy source s.x
.P
    s.x: %\|Y\|%, \(miy mismatch
s.z
.P
    s.z: corrupted SCCS file
.fi \fR
.P
.RE
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIadmin\fR\^",
.IR "\fIdelta\fR\^",
.IR "\fIget\fR\^",
.IR "\fIprs\fR\^"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "Chapter 8" ", " "Environment Variables",
.IR "Section 12.2" ", " "Utility Syntax Guidelines"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
